We are going to start with the today lesson. We will restart from the presentation from your testmate, Nicolas. He will be so kind to give us a small recap of the preview so we can follow easily all the presentation. And, well, the floor is yours. Ah, well, I remember you, anytime if you want, you can ask for questions and clarification and details and remarks. Feel free to do that anytime. Please. Okay, good afternoon, everyone. So let's do a very quick recap of what I've said like the last week. And as I said, the focus of this homework is on a very recent attack that is called, that is this one, that's, the name is very long, so I won't repeat it, but this attack is all men in the city attack and falls under the category of local privilege escalation.

And, okay, as I said, the systems that are affected are the recent C version of Ubuntu that must run two components that are snapconfine and systemdetem files because the exploits lies in the interaction of these two components. And the result of this attack is the grant of an unprivileged local user full system root access starting from a normal user in Ubuntu system. Here, as I said last week, I mapped all the techniques that were used and that were involved in this attack with a standard, this standard, but I have already said this.

And the last thing before deep diving directly into the attack is that all the artifacts that must be collected in this forensics analysis are highly ephemeral because they all live and reside in ephemeral memory, volatile memory, in RAM, 10-5-system and in the sockets. So, the live forensics acquisition is strictly mandatory for every phase of this attack and of this analysis. To sum up the first two phases that I have already explained last week, there's this nice scheme that I don't know if maybe I should zoom on it. So, the first phase was the preparation phase because the attacker needs to create the right situation to make the two components interact with each other.

So, it runs a background script to keep this particular folder that you see there alive for 30 days. And this is necessary because the attacker wants the .snap directory to be deleted, but not to the parent folder. And in order to do that, it keeps writing inside this folder because the system.dtemp files, that is the first component that we are using, do this performance distribution on Ubuntu system, that simply deletes all the files also inside the .stamp folder that are untouched for 30 days. So, we keep the .stamp folder modified every time, so it won't be deleted, but that child folder, the .snap, will be hopefully deleted.

Then, when we have reached this date, because the 30 days has passed, we reached the phase 2 that I called the .tou, that stands for time of check, time of use. Why that? Because we need a specific thing. We need to execute .snap.confine, that is the second component that simply creates a sandbox for every software that was installed with .snap to build them with the library that it needs to run and to run the software. So, we need first to execute .snap.confine with .snap.debug enabled. Why that? Because, if we enable the debug mode, but we set a very small socket with a very small buffer, then, with the .snap.debug enabled, there's the initialization of the private mount namespace, but there's a stream into that socket that simply writes all the debug info, but if the buffer is really, really small, this buffer is filled up instantly, and the execution of a .snap.confine is paused until the attacker empties this buffer.

So, in this moment, it's the right moment because before this pause, the snap.confine has checked that .snap is not present, and so he knows that he needs to recreate it. In that time, we access the current working directory through a nice thing that happens in Linux. In fact, if a process is running in that moment, the current working directory of this process can be accessed to this symbolic link that this process, the PID of the process and the current working directory. And in that exact moment, he checks that that snap directory exists, and he tries to do other stuff, but we post them, we exchange the .snap with our malicious folder, and the trick is performed because in this case, the snap.confine believes that the .snap folder is created by itself, but it is not.

It's our malicious directory that now we own, and we can write it and create files on it. So, then we simply clear the socket buffer that pauses the process, and the snap.confine resumes, and the mimic mount has occurred successfully. To find the evidence for this part, I recommend to use two commands that are find slash proc to search inside this folder to find that if the process is running that time, and at the same time to use ss command, because it simply searches for all the active socket in that moment.

So, you can check if a strange socket has been created with a very small buffer, and you can have also, in this case, a temporal correlation between these two things. Everything must be performed live, obviously, because all this information will be lost after the attack. Then, now we have our folder where we can write anything. So, we can... Now, the exchange directory swapped in, and we can poison the dynamic loader, inserting our malicious dynamic loader that, in the next phase, will spawn a shell for us. So, this is a very quick phase, and to check if the dynamic loader is the right one, and not the malicious one, we can use SHA-256-SAM, and compare that with the original squash file system image that you can find online.

Now, for the attacker, it's trivial to obtain a full privilege escalation, because with the set UID root, snapconfine, of that process, is simply insert the malicious shellcode inside the dynamic loader. The dynamic loader is going to be blindly loaded, and it will be executed, and simply a shellcode will spawn, as you can see here, when the snapconfine is called again. In fact, as you can see, I can zoom in. Okay. He executes snapconfine another time, but this time the dynamic loader, the malicious dynamic loader, has been inserted and built with the other library, and so the shell has spawned.

To find the evidence of this part of the attack, I recommend to you Osearch, that search inside the kernel audit logs, and search for a forbidden pattern, because obviously, it's very strange to see a set UID binary that is spawning a shell, and this is tracked, and you can see that, and you can find a critical evidence about that. Okay, to explain the last phase, we need to understand a thing, that we spawned, the attacker spawned this shell, so it now has all the root privileges, but it's still sandboxed, because the snapconfine create a sandbox, so it needs to escape this sandbox.

And how to do that? Because, for example, as you can see, he performs this command cat attitude shadow to see all the password of the users, but in this moment, he can't, because he said permission denied, because he's still confined inside this sandbox. So in the last phase, he do a very simple trick. He copied the bash, a simple bash, a simple shell, in a common folder that can be written by anyone with the root privileges. He copied that, and simply he set the set UID, so the 0, 4, 7, 5, 5, setting this for, you can say that this bash will run with the privilege of the creator, and we are the creator in this moment, and in this moment, we have the root privileges.

So then, he simply exit this confined shell, and he executes this outside shell that now has the set UID, so he can simply run this shell with root privileges, and access every type of folder, also the etc shadow. To find the evidence in this case, it's a bit difficult, but you can search inside all the folders, some files with the, some shell with the permission, with the set UID permission, but it's a bit difficult to find that. Here's to conclude, there's an hypothetical incident reconstruction timeline, so what an attacker can perform and the timestamp of all the phases, and a quick sum up of all the things, all the tools as forensics analysts that we can use to trace these phases.

So to conclude, we have seen how the shared director is globally accessible as slash temp, can create this dangerous interaction, if the components are running with root privileges, that we need a live response, very quick live response to intercept this kind of attack, so it's very difficult, and that is very important to keep a documented chain of custody, because everything that we have, we have acquired with the tools that I use, needs to be hashed and to keep in a state that can be used in court, that has legal validity. So that's all for this presentation.

Thank you for the attention, and I'm open to any question. Yeah. If I can answer it. Oh, well, very interesting. Do you want to comment a little more on the timeline of one of the last slides you presented, just in order to, well, to explain what your kind of scenario, according to this deadline line, the scenario that you hypothesized, just in order to understand how a possible attacker can behave in order to exploit this kind of attack. By the way, this is just an hypothetical one, not related to some real attack, right? No, no. Okay, that's fine. Because I found this analysis of this attack, but this attack wasn't performed by people with aim to act, but simply they found this vulnerability.

Okay, so if you can briefly comment on what you hypothesized as a kind of attacker behavior here, why you put this, for example, different timings, the initial one and the second one that are separated by a consistent amount of time, for example. Yeah, for example, if we are comparing the first two rows of this, of this table, we can clearly see that a month has passed between the initial script that is being run by the attacker and the start of the second phase. The reason is that the system 10 files, at least in the version that I analyzed, that is the one with Ubuntu system 24.10, the system 10 files needs to performs this clean, not every 30 days, every, but it needs to have a stale file for 30 days.

So you need to wait that that dot snap is old enough. Okay. Okay. And, well, every other steps is very near because, like, you can simply script all that. and because I think that's in a real tax scenario, you don't perform with the terminal, but you have, like, a pipeline with a script file that execute all the other stuff. Well, interesting. And this allows maybe a kind of intrusion detection OS-based system to identify a kind of signature of possible behavior, this sequence of steps, I mean, and then maybe block the attempt or at least detect the attempt, the attempt of doing that. So, just a kind of loud reflection on that.

Okay. Any further comments, questions? Perfect. I thank you again. I think very interesting. The report, as well as this presentation, is now on the portal. You can access and send it in. And dig into. And, well, a kind of request, which is not mandatory, but is a kind one, as I said, is in case of any student that has further remarks, even later, as a kind of follow-up, my ask directly to the owner of the homework, maybe putting myself in a carbon copy, and then in case some interesting this is the kind request. After that, in case I find out that something relevant from the possible exchange of following this follow-up, my rise, I will put some follow-up, some further notes on the portal just to enrich, if the case, the finding of the homework.

This is valid for this and for all the homeworks. Okay? Nice. Nice from you as well. Thank you. Okay. We can get back to the... Okay. ...to the ordinary lesson. For today, there is no further homework, I think, to discuss. There is switch on the microphone.

I think now you can hear my voice. I hope. I'm going to share the screen. I'm going to pre-open our nice... ...to a forensic slide. Okay.

We can step back on this slide. We were discussing about the approaches on... Well, I use it. We didn't use the microphone, but, well, it's not needed. Okay. And it's not perfectly working, by the way. So good to not use that. Well, we were discussing about metal forensics. I'm happy to see that some of you also exploited those kind of approaches and suggestions, somehow, in order to improve the analysis in the lab, in the last lab we had last week. I appreciate that. I, as I said here, but just for the record, if you find in your investigation something interesting or even something that is not, well, concluding, but you adopted a nice strategy in order to dig into some details, well, even if not exactly successful in this case, from an educational perspective, I think, maybe what to be mentioned in your report.

So I, well, I suggest to put everything you did that, in your opinion, is a sound approach in order to do an investigation. Put that in your report and I will appreciate that even if, well, maybe nothing in particular emerged from that specific branch of the investigation, of your investigation, okay? I'm also very interested in the creativity of the approach, not only on the result, because we are doing a journey. we are not teleporting ourself on the final goal, okay? This is basically the approach in this course, and it is very relevant. Well, from an educational perspective, we were approaching the anti-forensics, for network forensics approach, just some of them, and, again, we can devote a full course even for this simple aspect.

So, basically, we just highlight the most relevant principles, in my view, in order to understand how to approach the attempts to follow the investigation. And it is safe to remember you that those, from the perspective of an investigation, might be a kind of privacy-preserving technology. So, the point of view is we should be aware that there might be different angles in which we can see some actions. And if I'm talking about attempt to follow the attempt to follow the investigation, it's just because we are considering a specific scenario, not because that technology is bad by itself.

Okay? This is a kind of balanced point of view that should be remembered. Getting back from the technical perspective of anti-forensics or network forensics, what are the purposes? basically obscure, make understandable, or by removing, by altering the content of a network exchange, in the most general terms. And, well, this can be done in many different ways, like, well, manipulating the normal network flows. Basically, the network technologies try to achieve some effective goals, like, bandwidth.

Diminish as much as possible the bandwidth consumption, improve the latency, improve the transfer of data for per unit time, etc., in general, improve the efficiency. So, basically, they have a very clear pattern of optimization in general. Instead, if this is approached by an attacker during a crime, if this optimal strategy is used by an attacker, this might be easily detectable by common ground technologies nowadays. Every intrusion detection system from a reasonable configuration and from a reasonable technology nowadays can detect a full-fledged attack.

This is relevant, this is, you know, they are attempted by skilled attacker only in case of denial of service, and possibly not, you know, the different stage of denial of service, of a distributed denial of service attack. Otherwise, the attacker attempts to conceal the traces, reducing the flow, changing, not using the direct path to a destination, to a target, but instead using different hopes in order to conceal, to conceal the real origin and maybe also the final destination in some cases. There are a nice privacy infrastructure named TOR, which is exactly devoted to this kind of TOR concealment.

I think it will be worth probably tomorrow to have a few words on that. But the basic approach is always reduce, in respect of natural flows, reduce the effectiveness of the data exchange, and not choose the optimal path from the perspective of efficiency, but instead use the tools, introduce delays before sending data. Maybe inject irrelevant, not relevant traffic, in order to confound the statistical parameters of the network translation, of the network transmission, sorry, and then avoid easy detection in real time from the intrusion detection system, but also in a post-analysis scenario.

To avoid the easy possibility of a forensic investigator of finding out traces easily correlated during the post-mortem analysis. Well, and this is probably the most relevant and specific point for network forensics. Of course, network forensics share anti-forensics in this field, share common techniques suitable also for other scenarios, but targeting the specific network artifacts. Very easily, we can mention the possibility to hide the content, the payload of network flows, and we well know possibilities to do that.

Basically, basically, we always adopt protocols that may fall under anti-forensic techniques like TLS, for example, like SSH, for example, that encrypt the very content of traffic exchanges, and then make very difficult the possibility to deep packet inspection even in a kind of post-modern analysis, unless we are capable to acquire the, well, basically the content from the very origin or the very destination of a flow. which may be a non-negligible thought.

And, well, also alteration of logs is something that can be encountered in other kinds of analysis, that is valid for altering the setup of network flows, the logs that maintain information about the listening ports in specific times, the running network services, and so on. Any kind of logs that store the information about the happening traffic, network traffic. Yes, please. So, it's not very unlikely. What option? Well.

Well, it depends. It depends on your scenario. This is a kind of proper behavior using happen-only logs. In some cases, we may also have difficulties in accessing the very log, because the interaction is sandboxed, and then we cannot access. This is typical in a cloud scenario, for example. Yes, this may happen. But this is not the full-fledged set of possibilities that we may encounter. In a legitimate case, we may have logs on servers that are just put there, and they are, let me say, saved during backup time. Maybe after the backup, we have that posed in a more secure position, but before the backup, this is not the case.

This is just an example. Or, another example, we might be in a non-legitimate scenario, in case of a node infected by a malware, for example. In that case, it was very nice what your classmate has shown us before, that there exist methods in which, even in a sandbox case, we might trespass. In the case, we run a different bash, there are thousands of possibilities of malicious behavior. Another is put a kind of man in the middle, even in the memory of the server, the server that acquired information and, before storing the log, it forwarded on another file in order to replicate the stuff or to filter out. Okay? And we should consider, in abstract, all the possibilities.

We should be aware of all the possibilities that we can encounter. And so, we should direct, drive our investigation, of course, according to the specific context. If I don't find the trace of malicious infection, if everything is stored exactly in an happen-only way, when I acquire the information, then okay, probably the logs are not altered. But even in that case, I need another assumption. The fact that I trust the owner of the system, as well. Okay? In those cases, yes, I can not consider this specific point. Do you think as a stage to the firewall point, can we see that at the point? Yeah, of course. Of course. Of course. Tunneling strategies is a possibility, is a classical possibility for anti-forensics.

And my fault in, I would say, even two of these points. The hiding of the intent and the payload of packets, and possibly if I'm tunneling. So, maybe I'm sending my data, not on the final destination, but to an intermediate node, that then will forward the data to the final destination, where I'm also hiding, obscuring the network, the real network flows. I'm losing efficiency, because I have one step more, but I'm obscuring my traces. Yes, for sure. Typical case of anti-forensics. It is still valid what I said, that I, in a huge number of times, I will use it legitimately, to protect the legitimate data SSH.

But in some cases, I can use that for a malicious purpose. Okay? And, well, inside network forensics, I don't think we'll have too much time to investigate that aspect, but also there are the possibilities to use decoys, how to say, some notes, some pitfalls that may attract and change the normal flow, in order to perturbate the system, the context, let's say, and make harder the possibility to clearly identify the malicious traces from one side.

Also, in the field of network forensics, this is more for kind of OSINT, well, not exactly OSINT in this case, but for acquiring information, we can use nice tools like ONINETs and ONIPOTs, in order to attract even normal users, but mostly attackers, in order to understand, to shape, what is the current posture of attacker behavior, in order to understand what is the more likely kind of attack, more likely kind of attack, more likely kind of attack, more likely kind of strategies that in a specific point in time we have for active ONINETs and ONIPOTs, but also we can access, when available, of course there are nice projects that share the findings, we can access the data, the behavior of attackers, in the data they acquired, and then we can build on this kind of fresh, contextual data, what might be, from an administrator perspective, the most appropriate countermeasures in a specific point of time, from one side, and from the investigator perspective, from one side, and from the investigator perspective, again to drive on the most specific, likely kind of attacks that may run on a system.

Okay. Okay. Okay. Well, I already mentioned some, here, there is a set of slides that details what I basically explained, from highlighting the different techniques, encryption is the very basic one, and we can see that in a number of a number of, of network protocols, like, yeah, I put HTTPS, meaning, of course, TLS, IPsec, of course, it's nice to mention also the virtual private network in the, in, in, in the modern sense, meaning, yes, we may have a number of network protocols, like, yeah, I put HTTPS, meaning, of course, TLS, TLS, TLS, IPsec, of course, it's nice to mention also the virtual private network in the, in, in, in the modern sense, meaning, yes, we may have a kind of, for example, IPsec set up to, to obtain a virtual private network.

This is fine. This is fine. This is, again, IPsec. But, the, by, IPsec, techniques, nowadays, is also very related to the possibility of conceal, the network flows, because, and also surpass geo-based, geo-based, geo-location-based, restrictions. Basically, there are a consistent number of nodes around internet that, after a payment, allow you to connect to that node and ask to reach a specific destination through that node. Well, there are also some, few, free possibilities. The concept is the same. The final destination will not see your origin.

And this might conceal a user that wants to see restricted content in a specific country, maybe for legitimate purposes, for example, according to my ethics, access common information that are restricted by the regime of the country, or for malicious intent. It's intended to attack, to exfiltrate a protected information, a sensitive and protected information, without leaving traces of the real origin. Okay. So, inside a VPN, nowadays, we have both, again, effects, payload, concealment, and also network flows, obscuration.

Tunneling is, well, what we described in the case of SSH, but it's good to mention that we may have, also, it may be involved in SSH. And there are even very complex setup, attacking setup, that might take place, meaning that we can put a completely different protocol inside a tunnel, without any clue of the original packet, because everything, everything is encrypted inside the encrypting protocol. And this allows to conceal not only the payload and the parameters of the exchange, but even to understand what kind of exchange is happening at all.

We may put, in an encrypted payload, the full stack of packets, and also multiple, multiplex, multiple different protocols in a single, in principle, encrypted connection. For example, considering the fact that someone is asking from a DNS translation, or an HTTP exchange, an FTP, or email exchange, whatever, we can conceal everything. And this is one aspect of the tunneling related in cooperation with encryption. We have another possibility.

We might try to disguise information inside legitimate and realistic protocol exchange. For example, we might put power communication using DNS data, normal DNS queries, and answer, because there are some fields inside a DNS exchange. Well, in general, DNS is a nice example, because I can put a significant amount of information inside a legitimate DNS communication. But this is a general concept. But this is a general concept.

I can put information using non-relevant, implementation-dependent, unspecified flags, and so on, in specific communication, in specific exchanges, that if the two parties, the staff, the sender and the receiver agree on, can be used as a kind of cover channel. For example, DNS has been used to exfiltrate data in some notable attacks, for example. The packet manipulation is something that tries to obscure, again, basically the traffic flow by changing some specific parameters of the packet, or by injecting some specific parameters in the traffic.

And this is also related to the anti-traffic analysis. Here, the concept is, for example, well, basic kind of manipulation are, for example, changing the origin address. This is very easy to do and conceptually very, very clear. I can spoof my IP address and then the origin will no longer clear. I can do that, for example, in case of broadcast of broadcast network, very, very easy. I can put the IP address of a different node in order to send, apparently, the packet from another origin and then being still able to get the answer. Because I expect a broadcast answer, for example.

Or whenever I'm not really interested in the answer itself. Maybe I'm just doing a kind of attack to disrupt a service. Classical case of pig bombing, ICMP looting and so on. Or in the cases in which I can find out the information even without listening on the answer. For example, if listening on an intermediate status, intermediate node, I am able to see if the destination answered back or not. There are nice attacks that, for example, uses a printer, a network printer in a LAN as a kind of intermediate node to apparently send traffic from the printer itself.

And the answer is just not very interesting in respect of the content itself. But by the fact that the answer happened and checking the status of the printer, I can find if the answer reached the printer itself. Which is, in some cases, the information relevant for the attacker. And, well, also biocasmic before maybe can fall for a small piece in the network forensic field. Because we have a very small socket used not to transfer information, but instead to pause the action.

So this is a nice effect of a network artifact, a socket that may influence the behavior of a system. And then that should be understood in order to find out what happened on the system or the mechanics of an attack. So, nice, nice point. And, well, getting back to anti-traffic analysis, well, here, the technique is pretty simple. It's just that I want to avoid that an attack pattern is easily identified and I inject a lot of traffic in order to create a different... flow shape of a flow shape of the network exchange and then to full any kind of detection.

Even both the real-time for intrusion detection system and post-mortem for forensic investigation. Well, this, the principle is simple, but of course, there are very clear implementation for that. Because if I just put a lot of traffic, this by itself is a strange behavior. So I need that in general to understand as an attacker, the normal shape of the traffic in order to stress the detection parameters for the attack pattern, but not creating a kind of suspect pattern by itself. And this may require investigation of a specific network.

This requires a recognizance for the target. And this usually involves, may involve days, weeks, or even months before being effective and applicable. And, well, we have, apart from the injection, we have other techniques of evasion, which again implies the knowledge, the awareness of the network mechanisms, that, and also of the detection. In order to avoid, from one side, real-time monitoring, this means act outside the most focused time for monitoring activities, from one side.

But this may also be a suspect behavior. So, more often, this requires a kind of dilution of the actions in order to avoid the easy detectability. I send, for example, I send, again, very simple conceptual example, I'm trying to find out the services, the listing ports, the open ports on a specific, on a target server. So, I will not send, I will not send a huge amount of packets that not to any door, to any port of the server in a timeframe of few seconds. But, instead, I maybe will send one packet to port 1 at 12, then one packet to port 2 at 1 pm, etc., etc.

So, this very small amount of packets, almost for sure, will not be detected by the system and will be very, very difficult to be found in a post-modern analysis. Okay? It will result in a very, well, painful investigation, normally, even by automatic scanning. Very, very, very hard to find out. And, well, decoy traffic, this is another possible scenario. Again, the attacker should be aware of what he's doing. In some cases, it's not relevant, the identification of a source.

There are, for example, well-known IPs, well-known addresses, well-known nodes, that, I mean, many tens of hundreds of them. And, in some cases, the attacker can be replaced as a kind of so huge amount of compromised nodes that can be part of an attack, that I accept the risk to be filtered out during, to filter out a lot of his or her armies during an attack. And, in this kind of scenario, may be useful to send, from this Dany node, a huge amount of traffic in order to overload the defense system, the attention, more clearly, of the detection system, the monitoring system, and, after, also of the investigator, with a too big amount of logged data.

What is the purpose of doing that? Is basically allow the sending of specific attacks that are not easily noticeable inside this huge fluid of packets. A possible example is, okay, try an attempt of a denial of service, of a seemingly denial of service attack, with the second purpose, and the final objective, to exploit a zero-day vulnerability, and establish an access point inside the perimeter of the enemy, of the victim, if you prefer. And, well, this might be particularly complex to find out by itself.

Again, of course, well, most of the time this will result in a very post-mortem meaning that after further steps, and probably damages, we can trace back, as a forensic investigator, all the steps, and then find out that the denial of service attack was just a distraction. But instead of finding out when we find just after this attack, when lateral movements still have to be performed, may be particularly difficult. And, well, in this case, what we can do as an expert is just try to use our logic and find out and reconstruct the organic motivation steps that start from the actions, the enemy actions, and the results, in order to find out if the conclusion is...

This seems realistic or not. In that case, maybe we can find some lucky cases, let me say, that a kind of denial of service would be meaningless to a specific target. In that case, if we are in turn, we can try to find out other clues of different and malicious action. Okay? This is just something that can be done from a very experienced point of view, and it's hard in general. So, when malware and network forensics cooperate, they can find very interesting, technically speaking, results, like polymorphic and metamorphic malware, that are malicious programs that are capable to modify themselves, changing, for example, the type of encryption, changing some internal structures, and, well, basically, according to the definition, may change everything, even in a frequent way.

For example, I put here, the WannaCry, a very famous and nice ransomware case of malware, that is capable to change the payload for every packet transmission. And so, following even advanced firewalls and intrusion detection systems. And, well, in this field, there are amazing, from a technical perspective, results about self-changing codes, that start from the nice and old Morris worm, and nowadays exploit sophisticated techniques that are really really on the edge of the computer science.

Well, would be a nice study by itself, how this might happen. Anonymization techniques, I mean, I already mentioned that this is, well, what is the difference here? I mentioned something that can be done from a node-level perspective, somehow. The previous approach can be done, thanks to a node-level perspective, apart from the VPM case. The VPM case may be extended the concept a lot, if we consider a full infrastructure devoted to achieve anonymity. And we have here, the concept of the TOR infrastructure, where basically, not only the node, the initial node, and the destination compete to achieve the anonymity of the exchange, but here we assume to have an infrastructure of nodes that actively can see who is the origin, and explicitly does not want to know who is the fact destination, that result in a kind of very complex scrambling of the packets, and is capable to obtain consistent anonymization from the perspective of outside from this infrastructure nodes.

The result is good, there are countermeasures, and there are initiatives at international levels in order to cope with this kind of infrastructure. But in general and in principle, the results can be very good, if we have a consistent infrastructure that we can relay on to obtain this exchange. Well, I think that for HONTO might be worth to have some words, we will have them tomorrow. Just to mention what we can do to counter the anti-forensics, we have this kind of approaches that sometimes can be useful and sometimes not.

Of course, nowadays, almost none of them, by itself, is completely effective. Nowadays, a sound solution basically exploits one, two, but most often all of them, which involves an inspection of the traffic, whenever available, as deep as possible, compared to behavioral analytics to detect anomalies, for finding out even in case of encrypted traffic, what's going on, shape the network nodes in order to avoid it.

This is in case we are under control, we have under our control, the nodes of a network, instruct what kind and shape precisely, as much precisely as possible, with a kind of white listing approach, what is permitted inside the network and diminishing the possibility of fooling or injected malicious traffic. Use, as correctly mentioned, tramper-proof devices, like append-only, like write-ons, read many storage possibilities, in order to avoid the alteration of logs for network nodes. So, nowadays, nowadays it's really relevant to have a team, or at least a powerful mixed unit of artificial intelligence discovery and experts that examine the threat ongoing in a specific moment, to be ready to determine the threat of artificial intelligence.

to be ready to detect and also instruct the nodes to detail and find out when something might go wrong. And, well, I think we can stop here for today. Questions? OK. Everything clear, I hope. Thank you. See you tomorrow. Bye. Bye. Bye.

Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.
