Okay, guys. Sorry for the delay. We will not have a break. If it's not a problem for you, perhaps we can finish a little bit earlier, but I would like to go through until 11, so we can finish this part and then the other part regarding cybercrime convention.

So, just to recap some information regarding the last lesson, I was a little bit too fast when we talk about the jurisdictional principle. I want to come back to this point because it's really important for the exam. So, I think that it's really important also to understand the evolution of the remote forensics hacking activity, whatever you can call it, the activity to circumvene the defendant, the indicted person, the investigated person by using Trojan and Keylogger and whatever. Having said that, so the four principles, the main principle is the territorial principle.

And I think, and this is not only my opinion, it's the only principle that can work in this democratic, I hope, society. So, because the court in the place where the data is located as jurisdiction is the, even if it's not really logical from a, we could say, rational point of view, because we are in a situation of loss of location of data in a cloudy world. So, basically, I completely understand that perhaps from your point of view, it's not the more logical and intuitive principle. I think, anyway, that is the most important principle. The other principle is nationality principle, where we are going to use the nationality of the perpetrator that is the factor used to establish criminal jurisdiction. Then we have the flag principle, that is not really important in the airplane and ships and whatever.

It's just a curiosity, as I explained to you. And the new principle, that is the power of disposal approach, because as the main principle, the correct principle is the territorial principle. What happens if we are discussing about an investigation against a person, against one of you that is present here in Turin, but the data are not located in Turin? How can you solve this issue from a legal standpoint? And this is what happens now. So, the only way to solve this issue is the power of disposal approach. So, the idea that if I have the availability of the device, I can have also jurisdiction. From a legal standpoint, for me, it's a crazy principle, just to be clear. It's a crazy principle. All the doctrine criticizes this principle, because it's not correct, because it's not important, the device, as you know.

It's important, the data inside the device. And so, to think that you can have the jurisdiction just because you have the availability of the device is not the correct principle. But I also understand that in certain cases, it's a way to justify the hacking of a device. So, again, the power of disposal approach, please note this part, is the way, the legal way, to justify the hack of a computer from a legal standpoint. So, again, the correct answer is the territorial principle is the basic principle in every democratic state. So, the idea is where the data is located. But, as we have all the issues that we have discussed before, and we will discuss also today, because the Cybercrime Convention is the real issue that we have of the jurisdiction problem, that is an enormous problem that we had, we start to have, sorry, with the internet, basically, because when the data starts to flow around the world, the power of disposal approach is the solution, is the legal solution.

The Council of Europe arrived to this solution, even if, again, from a strictly point of view, is not the correct one. I had to discuss with a lot of prosecutors in Italy that try to justify this principle because they want to conduct the investigation, and they completely understand the point of view, because from a prosecutor, it's really frustrating, the idea that you cannot, even if you know that the data are one meter behind you or in front of you, you are not able to catch, because there is the encryption from one side, the jurisdiction from the other side, so you are not able to take this data. And so the idea, okay, I need to find this solution. But sometimes it happens that you have to accept the fact that you can conduct investigation also without this kind of principle. What happened in the other part, and this is the real part that you need to know for the example, please, guys, concentrate for this, because this is probably, it will be a question.

In a certain, in a way or in another way, you will have this question, because this is the basis of where we are now, basically. What is important, the other, this is not the part for the exam, but it's for you. What happened in the United States? In the United States, there is another culture. The idea is, there is no problem, we formally respect the principle, so we can have absolutely the territorial principle as a principle. But on the other side, they have one, two advantages. The first advantage is the practical advantage. They have the access to the data because they are in the United States. But from our point of view, it's not, if the investigation is not connected with the U.S. investigation, but it's an international investigation, or it can be used by the secret services to conduct an investigation in another country that is not the United States, this is not fair.

But they have the location, they have the data, because the data is mostly managed by a U.S. company, the European data, and not only European data. So, this is the first advantage. And the second advantage is that they have a culture of agency, like CIA, FBI, NSA, I also explained to you the last lesson, that gave to us, that gave to the United States, the possibility to make a secret investigation. So, from a former point of view, the United States' legal culture on jurisdiction is perfect. For example, they do a real little number of war tapping, interception of data, war tapping, I explained to you the last lesson, what is it, what is it, intercettazioni, telefoniche or telematiche.

So, they do this kind of activity in a really, really little amount. And perhaps, and always it's crazy, because they criticize the Italian culture that use a lot this kind of tool to make investigation. But the interception, the war tapping, is a kind of investigation that is legally provided. So, there is a judge that decides if it's correct or not to make this kind of investigation. So, if they want to wiretap a phone of me, for example, they cannot do because I'm an attorney, but this is another story. They cannot intercept data between me and the client, not in every situation. They can intercept also an attorney, but it's not so common. But if they want to intercept a person, they have to do a procedure. In the United States, they don't do, they can theoretically have the interception, but they use it in a really limited way.

But what they do is that they use the secret services to do a lot of activity based on the fact that they need to protect the national interest, the national security. So, on this other value, they do all this kind of activity. They have the data and they don't have to tell to anybody the kind of activity that they do. So, the CIA do every single day a lot of investigation about all the citizens in the world for national interest, for national security, for a lot of other value that is not a judicial activity. In Italy, we don't have this culture. We also even know where is Crosetto, if he's in Dubai. So, we don't have the kind of security services really, really strong. We have the real power is on the judiciary system.

And this, again, guys, is a good thing, even if we are a little bit disorganized. But it's a good thing, because if the power is on the judiciary system, you can have always transparency. Even if you argue and you are not satisfied about some judiciary decision or the judiciary system, you have the possibility to go and see what is the investigation, to go and see what they do about your data. In the United States, you have a perfect judiciary system, but the real work is made in a secret situation where you don't have the right to go and see what happens. Even in Italy, you have the secret services. It's just a matter of how can you use this. So, when you can try to go to this, or sorry, now it's A-I-A-S-I or A-I-S-E, because it's divided into international secret services or national secret services.

And then you can ask to AISE or AISE to have information, and they will not tell you. So, this is the huge difference that you have when we talk about this kind of investigation. But anyway, even if AISE want to start an investigation, they don't have the access to the data, because they can have access only on Italian provider. And Italian provider, you know, one of these is Italian online, the only one, you have Aruba, and then you are finished. But the most part of the data are not in the Italian provider, but are in the U.S. provider. So, this or U.S. or other countries, then we can open the question to what happened around the world. But basically, the two main points is Italy and U.S. So, I think that it's really important, this part, not the second one that I already told you, but it's important also for you to understand the difference between the Italian and the European system, between U.S. system.

And why you can have more, more, sorry, just for a second. Okay, thanks.

So, this principle is the important principle that you need to know, and I was explained about the United States and Italy and Europe. The other part that is, that we miss is this one. Okay. I have to admit that it's a little bit out of context, but it's an important part, and it will be connected with the laboratory that we will go to. We will start, not the next week, but in about two weeks, we will start the laboratory. It's important, the presentation in the court, because what is the main, main problem that we have is that the judge in Italy, in U.S., in every part of the world, are not able to understand digital evidence, are not able to understand technical issue.

90% of the case, 90% of the case, 90% of the case, 90% of the case, I would say 95% of the case. So, the work that you can do as engineer, as technical consultant, and digital forensics expert, normally is not understood. So, you can reach the point, and we will see, for example, in the Garlasco case, if the goal is to obtain a data. But if you have to describe a process, that is another, so you have to find an evidence, there is the evidence that you have committed, have you wrote this kind of code, malicious code, or whatever. Yes, this is something that you can understand, obviously, but when you discuss about the process, because you don't have to explain or to say if a person is guilty or not, but you have just to explain what happened from a technical point of view.

For example, in a case of an attack, that we have a lot of, now, forensics activity, in a case of data breach or incident, IT incident. So, in that case, it happens that the technical reports is not well understood. Why? Because there is too much confusion, in my point of view, about the way to describe the kind of evidence that the technical consultant discovered. And that's why it's important also, during the laboratory, the idea to present in a written and in an oral way the evidence. Because the other part that you have to understand is that in Italy, the mainly part of the trial, criminal, civil and administrative, is in an oral way. Civil trial is not so oral, there is a lot of written part. But again, when you have the witness report and witness testimony, you have to be present and to explain orally to the judge what happened.

Especially if you are an expert, especially if you are an expert, if you are a technical consultant. So, we have these two problems. The fact that in the technical report, it's difficult to understand, to have an index, to have an executive summary, to have a lot of information that are not present. And also, especially in the oral part, there is no correct preparation of the technical consultant to explain what is the main point. I have learned this kind of techniques, and I want to give to you my experience in the United States, because we did a lot of rehearsal. What is rehearsal? What is rehearsal? The rehearsal is a sort of simulation of the trial, where you are able to explain and to have a proper judge that will help you to give the right point to demonstrate the evidence.

This is a really important part. So, I want to show you a video that is a really old video. This is a case, a murder case, the murder case. This is what happened in reality. And this is, sorry, I described, it's really simple, but I described what happened. So, now here there is the car of the police that have a CCTV, that have a camera, and they try to stop a person that is a fugitive. And at a certain point, you will see that the car stop, the policemen go out from the car to take the fugitive, but then the fugitive start again to escape, because the idea was a strategy for the fugitive to go away. And the police start to shot with a gun, because they think, and this is the theory of the police, that the fugitive want to kill the policemen.

So, the idea of the policemen, and they demonstrate with this video, is that they kill these fugitives because they want to defend themselves. And then we have, in the left side, we have the correct video, and in the right side, we have the simulation, because this is what happened in reality.

And then they kill this person, and this was the simulation made by a sort of AI. So, as you can see, with this old simulation, the policeman won the trial, and the policeman has been acquitted in this trial. What does it mean? It's that when you present an evidence, you can have an important role to convince a judge to a decision or another. In my view, and this was presented in a book that was called Law on the Display, if you want to read this interesting book, Law on the Display is a book that describes this kind of issue.

But what is important is the idea to have a lot of, when you do a technical report, you have a lot of responsibility, because basically, the judge decided, in the 90% of the case, when you present the scientific evidence in a correct way, and when your activity goes in a certain direction, another direction, you will trust the scientific evidence. So, first of all, the ethic, I would say the ethic rule is that you have this responsibility when you do a technical consultancy, because you, again, condition in a certain sense the decision of a judge. The second point is, apart of the ethical way, there is also a situation that is a practical way to describe. So, when you do a bad presentation, when it's not clear what you are going to do, obviously, you don't give to the judge the element to make a decision.

And then the only decision is probably the last part of the technical report, when you give the answer, yes or not. But it's not the answer, yes or not, that is important. It's the fact that you have the role to explain to a judge what happened in reality, because you have a role of a witness, and you can change the life of a person, even if it's a criminal, civil, administrative proceeding. So, the presentation is the most important part of the job. And basically, when I have a relation with the forensics expert, the problem is that for them, the most important part is the root cause, for example, is to understand what happened, but for their point of view. When they have understood what happened, the game is finished. They don't have the willingness, in a certain sense, to find a way to explain in a simple way what happened.

So, now we have another important element, and this is the third and last part of the story, that is artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence is a great tool, because you can have a lot of possibility to change your role, so you can put some content, as you can really well-known in AI, in generative AI, and then you can transform the role. You can have a lot of role-playing, so you can also simplify in a way that probably we are not able to do, and this is a wonderful opportunity. You can also have the possibility to use a tool that gives you the possibility to present the evidence in a different way, to use image, to use image reconstruction, or whatever. On the other side, there is, with AI, the possibility to create a lot of deepfake, a lot of, and this, for example, in my view, is a pre-historical, I would say, deepfake in this case.

So, it's also a real trouble, because AI can condition, again, the decision of the judge more than what happened in the past. So, basically, AI is, again, as always, a great opportunity, but also a great risk. So, this is the idea that we have in the next, the most important idea in the laboratory, because I think that it's important for you to understand how it works, the procedural way of digital forensics during the trial, but also the importance of the presentation of the evidence, that it's really important. So, the idea is to convince me in the good way, in the best way. So, we have finished this part, and we can continue with the International Convention. Okay, cybercrime convention.

We can... No? What the... Parcazzo, ma per che? Okay. What happened? In 2001, we had this great idea, so 25 years ago, to... The idea was made by the Council of Europe, so here in Europe. And, as you know, the Council... Probably you don't know, but I will explain to you now. The Council of Europe is completely different from the European Union. So, the Council of Europe is a council that also has the presence of a lot of non-European countries.

So, in the Council of Europe, you can discuss about convention, you can discuss about international treaty, and obviously, you have the possibility to invite every state in the world. Normally, you don't have all the states, but in certain situations, you can invite all the states in the world. So, the Council of Europe has the power, now a little bit less, but especially in the early 2000s, to make convention that can be compulsory in every part of the world. So, it's a sort of international organization, like the UN, but it's made in Europe. So, please, don't confuse the European Commission, the European Parliament, the European Union, basically, with the European Council, is based in Strasbourg, and has this kind of international role.

Then, obviously, you can also decide about the European issue, but the possibility of the Council of Europe is also to create conventions that are able to be compulsory in every part of the world. So, this is the first point that I want to clarify, the role of the Council of Europe. In 2001, the Council of Europe invited all the states of the world to think about what is the cybercrime, what is the risk that we have with cybercrime. And I can assure you it was really a good idea, like the Italian law that started about cybercrime, and the start in 1993, that it's really amazing in a certain sense, because in 1993, yes, the IT issue was not so important. Nobody of us has a real computer.

We start to have computer in the family. Basically, computer was something that is present in the company, and in the public office, obviously, but not in the family. So, it was not so common, the idea to commit a crime with a digital device. But anyway, in Italy, in 1993, we had the first European law, and one of the first law in the world, the other one was made in the United States. And in Europe, we decided in 2001 to solve the issue of jurisdiction. And again, in 2001, does not exist the idea of cloud. The idea of cloud started to become in 2005, 2006. So, yes, there was some cloud services, and the most important company in the Silicon Valley had the idea of cloud. But again, here in Italy, the cloud was something that was absolutely not known.

Just to describe, the idea was all on-premise, all on-premise. And when, in 2002, 2003, the first companies started to say, perhaps it's more convenient to use cloud, they say, no, this is not safe, it's a crazy issue, we lost our data. That, in a certain sense, was not so a stupid idea. But then cloud arrived, and it was absolutely more convenient for everybody. So, just to describe what was the word in 2001, to have an idea. So, it's really incredible to see that this kind of principle that we will study today has been taught in 2001. So, the expert that was involved in that kind of period was really a great expert. One of them is Marco Gerke, G-E-R-C-K-E, if you are interested, obviously. There is Understanding Cybercrime.

Understanding Cybercrime is an open book that you can download easily. And, obviously, if you are interested, it's just not for the exam, but it's an interesting paper, it's an interesting book that was written by Marco Gerke in 2000. 2005, but the idea was present also in 2000. So, that's why it's important. Again, just to give you a little overview. So, the general idea is to solve the issue that now we have solved with hacking the computer, that from a democratical point of view, it's not the best way to solve a solution of the investigation, because the best way is to say, hey, guys, we have this issue that is internet, we have to solve the issue on the fact that probably we will have to cooperate to do an investigation around the world.

And in that period, to tell you the truth, it was a completely different period, when you are probably born. It was a period where the war, yes, we had a lot of war around the world, as always happened, but it was not like this kind of war that we have now, or the Israel war that we had two years ago, one year ago, sorry. So, the war was, and also the Cold War was completely ended, and we had the idea that the Russia culture was a potential culture that could really help the European economy. So, the idea was really an optimistic idea, that is completely different from now. But, what happened is that, even if in the European culture, in the US culture, just to figure out, we had Obama in 2010, but Obama started his activity in 2005, was the first African-American president in the United States.

So, a lot of issue that now is not, we could say, we are in another world now, is a completely different world. But, some nations, specifically China and Russia, anyway, start to understand that even if it was a pretty calm period, they have to be prepared to something that couldn't change. So, this important event that was the Cyberkine Convention that happened in Budapest, in November 2001, 23 of November 2001, this was the final meeting, but in November 2001, all these member states of the Council of Europe, so, you can see here, how many, start to become, to arrive in the same place, to discuss the future of the cybercrime, the future of the jurisdiction, all this kind of future.

So, as you can see, in this situation, you will not see China, you can see, and you will not see, probably, I don't know, Russia, you will see Ukraine, but not Russia. Why you are not seeing these two kind of countries? They were absolutely invited, and they were present, but, at the end of the meeting, they decide, one, to, not to ratify, and not to see, not to sign, and not to ratify the convention, and the other one, to pose a lot of, limit, Russia, to sign the convention. I have to explain, just, this is not for the exam, but just for you to understand how it works at convention, there are two moments when you, when you do an international agreement, that is a convention.

So, when a lot of states in the world decide to, to be in the same place, and to make a decision, that is a cooperative decision. The first point is to discuss, obviously, the text of this decision, then, they have the possibility to sign, to sign this decision, and the signature is not, it's just an idea that, they agree on the principle, but, the real part, is the ratification, of the convention. What is the ratification? The ratification, is the fact that, you go in your country, and say, okay, this is the convention, we have to implement the convention, and we have to create a law, in our country, that respects this convention. So, this is the ratification. So, I can only, I can also agree, there is some state, that sign the convention, but if you don't implement, the principle of the convention, in your member states, this kind of convention, does not make any sense, because, remain just a piece of paper, and then say, okay, yes, we agree on this principle, but then, our law, cannot permit, the fact that we have, this principle.

So, the convention, there is the signature, and the ratification. The most important part, is the ratification, not the signature. So, but, the goal, of the convention, obviously, is the signature, because, after the convention, the place, where all these member states, are in the same place, is to say, okay, all these member states, make a signature, and they say, that they will do, the ratification, in about two, three, four, five, six years. For example, Italy, do the signature, in 2001, and then, the ratification, of the law, of the convention, sorry, arrive in 2008, so, seven years after, but it's not so bad. There was, there were countries, that make the ratification, also, after 10 years, because it's not, easy, to go, in your country, and say, okay, we did this convention, now we have to do a law. So, it's, it's, it's just to explain, and it makes sense, if you think, that is the only way, to do an agreement.

So, we go in the same place, we decide the decision, that is an agreed decision, around the world, and then we go in our country, and we do the implementation, of this law. So, what is the purpose, of the cybercrime convention? Harmonizing national law, cybercrime, improving investigative, techniques, increasing, international cooperation. So, these were the three, main goal, of the, Budapest convention, on cybercrime. This is important. Harmonizing national law, improving, improving investigative, techniques, increasing, international cooperation. You can find here, the involved entities. So, then I will discuss, about Russia, but you have to remember, that China, arrived, in Budapest, start to, explain their reason, and then, after two days, they decide, not to sign, and to abandon, the, table of work, and, to abandon, the convention, the idea of the convention.

It's obvious, that they want to do that, because they want to keep, their jurisdiction, in a completely, different strategy. So, completely alone, if you think. So, in China, you want to have, the, complete control, of the, the internet, complete control, of the user. They have, complete, different, principle, rather than, the other, counting the word. It's not, not only China, as this kind of, balkanization of the web. What is the balkanization? The idea that, normally, in the, in the internet protocol, is, an open protocol, by definition. So, the idea to share, information, the idea to, the peer-to-peer, idea. So, now, you can find, this kind of, principle in blockchain, in the, centralization issue. But, on the other side, there is a lot of, power, not only, in China, that says, okay, this is an incredible resource, but, at the same time, I need to control, this resource.

In a democratic, state, all the, person, arrive at the conclusion, fortunately, in a certain sense, that we cannot, have the control, of the web. The first reason, is that, is, is impossible, from a technical, standpoint. The second reason, is the fact, that, it's not, legal, from a democratical, point of view. Then, just to, give you an idea, the, the real control, of the web, as you probably know, is, based, in the United States, because, they're, in that, they have, the kill switch, button, in a certain sense. But, but again, and, and, probably, this was also, one of the reasons, why China, decided to, abandon, this kind of table. But, it's not, really interesting, I'm not, really interesting, on China. It's obvious, that China, has also explained to you, last week, the issue, regarding, how, what happened, in 2010.

So, they, they do another job. Now, probably, they will come, to, to European, context, but, because they have, the possibility, especially, with AI, to dominate, also, the technology system. But, they impose, this is, our system to us. Probably, I do not know. This, we will see, in the next future. But, the idea, is that, China, is a, completely, isolated, world. So, if you, it's difficult, also, probably, a cyber criminal, is not so interested, to go, and to use, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, for obvious reason. So, the full adoption, by the Committee of Minister of Council of Europe, was in November, 2008, November, 2001. The signature, happened in Budapest, in November, 23, 2001. The entry into force, was, theoretically, July, 2004. In April, 2023, 68 states, have ratified, two states signed, but not ratified.

Signed, but not ratified. And this is, a really interesting issue, because, two states, did not ratify. One is, Ireland. Ireland. Why Ireland? Make, because, as I explained to you, Ireland is one of the places, in the world, where all, the, the, the big tech company, has the establishment, in Europe. Perhaps, this one, is one, is a potential reason. I'm not, obviously, the Prime Minister of Ireland, but, I, I imagine, that could be, a, a, a, a potential reason. And also, South Africa, that, as always, South Africa, especially now, I, I was in, in Cape Town, in January, and, I can assure to you, that, is, is an incredible, different world, where the connection, between Russia, and South Africa, is a really, strong connection. And, if you go to Cape Town, you can understand, how, is a different world.

Even if you have, we could say, you think that you are, in a, occidental, counter, occidental, culture, and, US-based culture, is completely different. You have, a, a, a strong, connection, with Russia, because there is, economic interest, between South Africa, and Russia. But, this is just, to discuss, I don't have any, any, any certainty about this. But, 68 states, are a lot of states. And, this is really important, because, one of the most important states, that, has ratified, as you can see here, is United States. And, this is, really, really important. There was, a lot of, criticism, and opposition, India, for example, initially, refused to adopt, due, due to, a non-participation, in drafting. They were not involved, in the drafting, the Indian state.

Then, reconsideration, surging cybercrime, but, concerned about data sharing, with, foreign agency, remain. So, the problem, there was, the, the, there is a, big concern, about, this kind of, data sharing, between, agency, as a, secret service, around the world, and this is, a, a, a, important part, of the story. So, as you, probably understood, any kind of connection, that FBI, sorry, forget, for example, FBI, is not FBI, FBI could have a role, but the most important role, is CIA, and NSA, FBI, FBI, as just an internal role, in United States, and, then, this kind of, secret services agency, can have, this kind of sharing, probably, I, obviously, don't know, with UK, but not, probably, with Italian, um, secret service agency.

So, there is, a, a, strong exchange of data, that I absolutely, not knows, but I can imagine, between this kind of, secret services agency, and this is something that, has been really criticized. Then, Russia rejected, and, yes, the, the story of Russia, was a little bit different, because, Russia rejected, this, uh, convention, here, the formal decision, is concerned about sovereignty, limited cooperation, international investigations, but, it was more, uh, clever, the idea of Russia, because the, uh, Russia role, was to, destroy, the, the, the, the, the value of the convention, because, differently from China, that, in, since the beginning, decided to abandon, the, the table, they were present, in the discussion, and, they changed, one of the most important, article of the convention, that is the article 32, the only article, that you have to, learn by heart, the other not, but, this is the most important, article of the convention, so, they have an important role, on the change, of this article, and then, they say, we will not sign, if you don't, amend, if you don't change, this article, then, when the article, was changed, they decide, okay, we, we don't sign, in any way, because we have, decided not to sign, so, this was, a strategy, because, a good strategy, because, they create, a big trouble, to this convention, that was a perfect convention, and then, when they have reached, the goal, to destroy, the value of the convention, they abandon, as China did, because, also in Russia, as you know, there is, a strong, balkanization, remember, that this is not, what I say now, is not, a critics, in any sense, of Russia, China, or whatever, what I account, is just, a matter of fact, this is what, is what happened, so, it's not a criticism, against Russia, or against China, it's just, what happened, if you can read, there is some book, about, what happened, in this convention, and was an interesting, opportunity, now, after 25 years, at the beginning, it seems, that I was too, too nerd, to have this kind, of interest, about the story, but, now, I can understand, and yes, I am nerd, but, I also, think that, this moment, was a moment, that could change, in a certain sense, the world, because, as you can imagine, not, the problem, of this convention, is not, now, we are, we are discussing, about computer forensics, all your, laboratory, will be, concentrated, on criminal, activity, corporate forensics, crime, whatever, but, we are not, discussing, about this, this convention, as a different value, we were discussing, about, the potential war, that we will have, in the next future, that is, and we all see now, a digital war, not a physical war, so, when you, if you find, an agreement, between, all the member states, in the world, about, the digital context, you can, probably, find a solution, to avoid, the digital war, and that's why, as you can see, some states, decided, at the very end, to quit, from this convention, because, if they agree, at the convention, in a certain sense, they accept, the fact, that the digital, context, context, cannot be, a context, of war, and, even if, in 2000, the world, was really, physical world, and not, digital world, this, the country, understood, that the future, probably, is the digital world, not, the world, not, the physical world, and so, that, they, they see, this, this convention, as a potential risk, to, avoid, a way, to fight, and to make a war, against, some other country, because the war, and we see now, is a, strategy, to, to, to make, to, to, to survive, in a certain sense, in the world, especially when we are, 8 billion persons, so, this is the strategy, the overall strategy, so that's why, I think that is important, because, yes, you can see that, there is also, this convention, made by UN, in 8 of August, 2024, and in a certain sense, it's a, a wonderful thing, because, United Nations, really recent activity, and all the principle, in this UN convention, UN, sorry, treaty, is the same convention, of treaty, but, when we talk about UN, it's better to say treaty, but, at the reality, there was no, any kind, of implementation, in the, member states, about this, UN treaty, so, the idea, is that the UN treaty, and that's why, I decided not to describe, the UN treaty to you, because, in a certain sense, it's a waste, a waste of time, I can, speak a lot, about the principle, of the UN treaty, but they don't have, a real effect, now, the only effect, that we have, and we can discuss, is about convention, on cybercrime, that, as this, problem, about Russia, about China, China, sorry, that I described before, so, we, we can use, cybercrime convention, we are using, now, the phone, that, the phone call, that I received, 20 minutes ago, was about, cybercrime convention, but, anyway, not in the sense, that, can solve, the, the, the fact, that, the digital, context, cannot be used, to make a war, so, this is the, the real principle, so, the, the, the overall principle, but again, now, we have to come back, to the, to the, to the context, of the exam, and, the cybercrime convention, it's used, to avoid, cybercrime, and, also, to make cooperation, not only in cybercrime, but also in civil, and in administrative, context, so, the convention, coming back, to the cybercrime convention, aims to help, in the fight, against crimes, that can, can only be committed, through the use, of technology, where the devices, are both, the tool, for committing the crime, and the target, of the crime, and the crimes, where technology, has been used, to enhance, other crimes, such as fraud, so the idea here, is that, the device, can be, from one side, the target, of the crime, but also, the technology, used, by the crime, so, another thing, that is important, is that, the absolute, that all the, criminal justice, specifically, but also, administrative, and civic justice, under evaluated, is the fact, that, yes, when you see, when you think, about cybercrime, you say, okay, when the crime, is, when the device, is a target, it could be a problem, and also, now, we see that, it's a big issue, if the device, is a target, is a problem, because, our life, now, is transferred, to, a digital device, again, in 2001, I want to remember, that, that, it does not exist, a smartphone, the idea, of a smartphone, the only thing, that you have, is a phone, that is, an enormous phone, that you can use, just to make phone call, and to make a text, of 160 characters, and you can do, 10 SMS, in a month, this was the, the first, team, and the telco, offer, was 10 SMS, in a month, I remember, that kind of offer, that was incredible, for the time being, but again, just to give you, an idea, that obviously, in 2001, the idea, that device, the digital device, can be a target, was a problem, but not, the main problem, but was, the other, under evaluation, I think that, they completely, under evaluate, is the fact, that all the crime, now, are committed, with the use, of digital device, all the investigation, are, made, on the basis, of WhatsApp, messaging, messages, sorry, or, email, or whatever, so, the idea, that you can, conduct an investigation, by following, a person, that was, in 90, the idea, or to, wiretap, the phone, is, is a stupid idea, now, any kind of person, that want to preserve, their, their, confidentiality, use, instant messaging, tool, like, signal, or whatever, or, also, WhatsApp, in a certain sense, because, even WhatsApp, it's, absolutely, really difficult, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, end, encryption, there is also, the, lack, the, complete lack, of cooperation, of, meta, if we discuss, about, wiretapping, so, also, WhatsApp, it's a tool, to, to preserve your confidentiality, so, the, the, the life is completely changed, so, the idea for the, in, in 90 and 2000, was, the digital device, they, they don't do anything, because at the very end, if I want to make an investigation, I can make a wiretapping of the phone, then I have the possibility to follow the investigated person with the policeman, and then we will do the investigation.

After 10 years, with the smartphone revolution, the idea was to follow the phone, and not follow the person, the smartphone, sorry, not the phone. Then, it provides guidelines for any country developing domestic law on cyber crime, and serves as a basis for international cooperation between parties to the convention. So, we can go on the international cooperation provision, that is, parties are to cooperate to the widest extent possible, and this is the cooperation principle, that obviously is a principle. Then, there is the mutual assistant, and we will see also, in the next slide, the idea of the mutual legal assistant treaty, MLAT, I will describe this mechanism. It's really important, because, we have to explain this principle, then we will come back to this principle, but I start to do this.

When you have a country, like Italy, and you have another country, like United States, forget for a moment also, the fact that we have discussed about digital device. When you have these two countries, and you need an evidence, from that country, you have to do a procedure, that is called a rogatory procedure, rogatory internationale, probably you have heard this word. What is a rogatory procedure? It's the fact that you have, okay, I know that you have this evidence. For example, I know, we can do it in Swiss, that is simpler. We know that in Swiss, there is a lot of bank account, and a lot of bank, and a lot of, obviously, person that has a bank account. So, you need to have the access, to a bank account in Swiss. So, what happens, that you have, you are the prosecutor, and you have to ask, to the minister of justice, so you go to the minister of justice, Italian minister of justice, Nordio, and say, okay, I need this bank account, for my investigation.

The minister of justice, Italian minister of justice, goes to the Swiss minister of justice, and say, okay, we need the bank account, of Silvio Berlusconi, because we want to see, what is in their account. So, the Swiss minister of justice, called the prosecutor, the Swiss prosecutor, that have to decide, if the, from a legal standpoint, he can ask, the bank account, of Silvio Berlusconi. So, what happens, when you go, from, the, prosecutor, that is, judiciary system, to the minister of justice, that is, executive, executive power. So, judiciary power, prosecutor, executive power. What is the huge difference? Remember, from a democratical standpoint, the, judiciary system, is a, completely separate, and independent.

Now, we are discussing about, this, independency, the referendum, yes or not, and all this stuff. Forget for a second, this stuff. If you want, I can, also help you about, the, if you have any doubt, but this is not a story, about the referendum. The point is another one. The point is, from one side, you have the, judiciary system, and on the other side, you have the executive. The executive system, is, elected by, the parliament, that is elected by us, okay, and then, they, but, anyway, the parliament, decided that, Giorgia Meloni, and the party, decided Giorgia Meloni, is the prime minister, and this is the executive, power. So, yes, indirectly, is decided by us, directly, is decided by the party, because, I do not know, if you have, if you think, really, that you have, yes, in a, we could say, romantic way, we could say, that we have, voted Meloni, but, in a proper way, Meloni, has been, it was the person, decided by a party.

But, anyway, this is the point, of the executive. So, there is, a person, that is, decided by the parliament, decided by us, and, they have, executive power. The judiciary system, is completely independent. You have not decided, who is, the prosecutor. You, you, you have not voted, the prosecutor. You understand this? It's really simple. So, why you cannot decide, who is the prosecutor? Because, should be, it should be independent. You can be, a magistrate, if, if you win, um, um, concorso, I do not know the, the word in, in, in, in English. And then, you become, a magistrate, you become, a prosecutor, you become, a judge. So, it's important to, to think that, when you go to, executive system, start to become, a political decision. No more, a judicial decision. Do you understand? So, derogatory, derogatory procedure, is also a way to, exchange, democratical power, because, you start from the judiciary, then you go to the executive, you, then the executive, the two ministers, told together, and then they go, to the, uh, judiciary.

This is the problem, of the, legal, the, the, derogatory procedure, the mutual legal system treaty. To simplify, this derogatory procedure, because, at the very end, they discovered that, oh, why? It's so strange. Any kind of, the derogatory procedure, that starts from a country, to another country, lasts a lot of time, because, the minister, has a lot of, things to do, apart from, discussing about, the bank account, of Silo Berlusconi, because it's not only, Silo Berlusconi, also persons, that are not really, relevant. And, apart from this, they, they, they decided to, if you have a good relation, with the country, because there is a good relation, from a political point of view, you have the information. If there is a bad relation, you don't have the information. But this is not correct, because it's not a problem of political issue, but it's a problem of judicial issue. But the problem is that, you have this exchange.

So, in, in some country, they decided to, simplify the procedure, of a, erogatory procedure, with this, mutual legal assistance, treaty, MALAT, mutual legal assistance, treaty. At the very end, they don't, exchange too much. They just, simplify the process, because, they don't go, through the minister, of justice, but they go, through a, a, a person, that is, dedicated to this, in the minister of justice. But at the very end, they don't change the system. So, the mutual legal assistance, treaty, or derogatory procedure, is a situation, where, with this exchange, of power, executive, from, judiciary, to executive, create a lot of problems. So, just to give you an idea, of what is, the mutual legal assistance, treaty. Then, allows, the conventional solution, allows, for expected requests, using, expected means, of communication, expected means, must provide, adequate levels, of security, and authentication.

This is, obviously, some principle, not really relevant. And then, voluntary information sharing, also, this is not, so relevant, as a principle, parties may, may share, information, with a formal request, if it would, assist in investigation, or help the, the receiving party, with any related offenses. Then, mutual assistance, provision, I have already, explained to you, this kind of, activity. But, there is, some, activity, that, are not, mutual, legal assistance, treaty, and some, activity, that are, mutual, legal assistance, treaty. I will discuss, I will explain to you, so, this is just a, list of some, things that we will see, in a second, in a really detailed way. So, don't worry, if I go fast here. Procedural power, for assistance, expected, expected, preservation, of stored computer data, expected, expedited, disclosure of traffic data, real-time collection, of traffic data, and interception, of content data.

Then, there is, the general cooperation, principle, mutual assistance, to the wide, extent possible, of cyber-related offenses, or collection of electronic evidence. Then, there is some restriction. Cooperation may be restricted, in the case of extradition, mutual assistance, regarding real-time collection, of traffic data, interception, of content data. This is a principle, that it's important, the idea to have, a point of contact, so, there is, any party, must designate, a contact point, available, 24 for 7. This is a principle, that is really important, and it has been implemented, even if, it works, not very well, but, theoretically, it has been implemented. The proposal is, provide immediate assistance, for cyber-time investigation, proceeding, or the collection, of electronic evidence. It's based, on the G8, network of content points model. Significance, aims to expedite, the processing, of urgent, mutual legal assistance request, sorry, mutual assistance request, overcoming, current days, in traditional, bureaucratic channels.

So, this is the, this slide, is just to explain, that, the cyber-time convention, impose, the fact, that we have, a contact point, available, 24 for 7. This is the only issue, that you have to remember here. Here, again, the previous slide, is just related, to the international, sorry, to the list, of the mutual assistance provision, that we will see, when we go, through the convention. Before going, through, the convention, and, and, and go, step by step, to understand, what are the, the single activity, the single power, that each state, each member states has, we can, go through this, something that I already explained, but, this is interesting way, just to, just to, also give you another, idea, of what happened, with the digital, world, because, before, the advent, the arrival, of the digital devices, the, the word was, synopticum, so, the many, watch the few, the television, is a classical system, synopticum system, so, the many, watch the few, in a, omnipotent system, the many, watch the many, so, is, this is an important point, because, as you remember, we have discussed, a lot about, the loss of location, and also the next slide, is about, the loss of location, but you have also, to remember, another part, that I have described, when we discuss, about the transmission, transparency, report, of Google, Twitter, sorry, X, or whatever, is that, the, the fact, that, in a, omnipotent way, the culture, of, reputation, is, absolutely, more important, rather, other culture, so, now, your, and my, reputation, is, is, is, really an asset, why is an asset, because, in, in, in, in, some second, I can destroy, or you can destroy, my reputation, just with the, with the, with the, post on, on the social media, because, if you do the right post, this post, will become viral, and you destroy, my reputation, and I can do, the same with you, so, basically, you can become, famous, and this really happened, in a lot of cases, in a second, for any really stupid things, so, that's why, I think that, this, and this, situation, has some legal consequences, but we have to understand, why this happened, and, again, just, was, another issue, that was absolutely, under-evaluated, by all, the, government, around the world, they do not understand, that the social media, change, also, the legal culture, of reputation, just to be clear, in Italy, in 1995, we had, 500, 500, 500, charge of defamation, in the, in all, Italian, judiciary system, and now, now, there is a, we have, 500,000, charge of defamation, around Italy, so, we have, not double, not, we have, 1000% increase, the, the number of defamation, why?

Because, any person, also you, that, receive an insult, on the social media, goes to the postal police, and do this kind of activity, so, I already explained this, and this creates, the problem that I, you remember, when I described, the first amendment, the, the, so, this is the, the, the other problem, that we have, because, you have to, consider, that, from one side, we have the loss of location, and, was completely under evaluated, from the other side, we had the, the explosion, of the digital device, so, you have, the evidence, start to, start to become, a digital evidence, in any situation, and, on the other side, the explosion, of, privacy, and defamation, action, so, now, why, all the person, talk about privacy, because, we think, even if it's a, boring issue, as, probably, you know, as you did, the course of, cyber security, and law, but, it's really important, for our life, the privacy, because, you can understand, that in a second, you can, destroy your life, because of a privacy violation, so, but this, was not understood, and when, a judiciary system, or, a government, do not understand, the change, what happened, it happened, a mess, and, the cybercrime convention, could be, was a potential solution, but, was not able, to do this, here, is the other part, but, we have discussed, a lot about, the fact, that we have, the loss of location, so, what are the, potential solution, the potential solution, was the article 32, but, now, I will list, all the articles, of the convention, what you have to consider, for the exam, you have to study, this article, you have to study, this article, just to have an idea, a general idea, not to learn by heart, absolutely, not to learn, not to learn, it's not important, for me, that you remember, that article 14, is the scope, of procedural provision, or the article 15, is the condition, or, the article 16, is the expected, preservation, of stored data, so, it's not important, for me, to learn by heart, the number, it's just to have, an idea, of what is the content, of the convention, the most important, part of the convention, is the article 32, yes, that, this is the issue, that you have to understand, and we can, we will arrive, in a second, this is a part, that we have to, understand, is a list, of the provision, something is just, general, like the, the next two, and then we have, specific, power, tool, that a member states, have to obtain, evidence from, another member states, so, or party, sorry, we, in a convention, it's not member states, but it's a party, each party, must adopt, legislative measure, to define the powers, and procedure, for specific, criminal investigation, or procedure, or proceeding, the provision, applied to offenses, covered by the convention, all other offenses, committed through, computer system, and all electronic evidence, related to any kind, so, this is just, the idea, that each party, must do, must implement, the idea, of the convention, so it's just, a scope, of the procedural, provision, then you have, the condition, and safeguard, that is another, general principle, the application, of power, and procedure, must ensure, adequate protection, of human rights, following national law, and international conventions, so this is general principle, blah, blah, blah, obviously we have to, respect the human right, in this kind, of convention, so condition, and safeguard, include judicial, independent supervision, considering, considering proportionality, and the right, of third parties, now we start, with the power, the tool, that they have, authorities, must be able, to order, or obtain, the rapid preservation, of specific computer data, particularly, if there is a reason, believed, that the data, is vulnerable, to deletion, or modification, the order, may require, the data's custodian, to preserve the data, for up to 90 days, extendable, as needed, this is an important, principle, and it's the, it's, it's not very used, by, by the, the party, of the convention, but it should be used, because what happened now, is that, as I explained to you, when we discuss about, the data retention, is that, some country, like, you know, some country, United States, as, they don't have to, respect, the, the, the data retention, directive, or the European country, like Germany, or Ireland, that they declared, in constitutional, the directive, so, this is the situation, so, I also explained to you, even if it's a, we could say, confidential information, we will not find, this information, in the terms of condition, that the, policy, of the United States, provider, like Google, or Meta, is six months, okay, so six months, is not a lot of time, so when you start, an investigation, and you have to consider, that probably, you have to pass through, the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty, if you don't want to, hack, the computer of the person, you have to, consider that, this part of the, the story is a long story, so, the preservation order, is a good idea, so you can advise, immediately, through the, the Cybercare Convention, a party to say, okay, you have to preserve, this data, all this data, for a period, that is at least, 90 days, but then, I can extend, this period, so, while, we are waiting, the authorization, to have, the data, you, you are, you have the duty, to preserve, this data, and this order, it works a lot, but it's not, really used by, the law enforcement, and I don't know why, because, it's, the American states, are absolutely, able to do this, and they accept, this principle, so they preserve, the data, and it's important, because in a lot of, case, at the very end, it arrives, the authorization, of the minister, of justice, in the United States, it is the department, of justice, DOJ, and when arrived, the authorization, the data is gone, they really, because the retention, is just six months, so it's a really short time, so you have, to do this immediately, but this is, just, an indication, for the law enforcement, it's not, for the forensics expert, but it's used to, to know, because, to tell you the truth, this convention, is not known, by the Italian law enforcement, remember this, and it's really important, because it's the only way, to communicate, with the United States, because the United States, has ratified this convention, so they have to, apply this convention, what is written, in this convention, they cannot say, I will not apply, okay, so, for example, the preservation data, yes, to tell you the truth, obviously, and you will see, the article 32, create this enormous confusion, because, if you follow me, in the next 20 minutes, you will see, that, it's a sort of, crescendo, like a musical, symphony, because, there is a lot of, article, that give, in a certain sense, a lot of power, to the, member, to the party, to obtain data, but then, arrive, the tragedy, of article 32, that is the article, where Russia, has this kind, of involvement, so, the article 17, give you the possibility, to obtain, the expedited, preservation, and disclosure, of traffic data, so, this one, is for the, store data, this one, is for the, traffic data, to ensure, data preservation, authorities can demand, rapid disclosure, of traffic data, and to identify, service, service provider, and communication pathway, even if multiple providers, are involved in the transmission, obviously, all this information, are not important, just to know, that you can, preserve, traffic, and store data, for a period, of 90 days, that could be extended, then, you have, the production order, and, this is a more, a little bit more, tricky, article, because, each party, shall adopt, such, legislative, and other measure, as may be necessary, to empower, its competent, authorities, to order, a person, in its territory, to submit, specified computer data, in the person, possession of control, which is stored, in a computer system, or computer data storage medium, and, a service provider, offering its service, in the territory, to submit, subscriber information, related, to such service, in that service provider, possession of control, so, you have to, implement, a specific, order, to obtain, computer data, in the possession, or control, of the person, so, for example, you have, a person, that is in your territory, that is not Italian, and, you have to, a French, French authority, ask, to obtain, the content, of this, French person, can use, the production order, to tell you the truth, this now, is able, is possible, with, the, the, the new rule, that we have obtained, in 2023, around Europe, but, this kind of, article A, of article 18, is not really, well, applied, because, some, some rule, can, are not, I cannot tell you, because, from a legal standpoint, obviously, should be applied, but I can tell you, from my experience, I never seen, this kind of activity, when we talk about, person, when we talk about, provider, there is a huge difference, between, subscriber information, and traffic data, what is subscriber information, for you, for you, what is subscriber information, for you, for your idea, yeah, of the data, of clients, of the, internet, about, yes, and, for, for example, you, your subscriber information, of Google, Google, what are the, if I, if I ask you, if I ask you, Google, to give me, your subscriber information, what can I obtain, yes, you remain, when you might browse, history, no, no, subscriber information, are just, the information, that, are present, when you, make the, register, when you register, in the services, so, when you, I don't remember now, exactly, what you need, to give, to Google, when you make Gmail, I, it's, but last too much time, but I think, I imagine, name, last name, email, address, no, no, telephone number, yes, because you have, in the, the, yes, the, the, the verification code, and then, I think, but, anyway, when you, when you want to commit a crime, and you want to, have a Gmail account, probably you, will not put your, real name, and probably, your email, will not be, giuseppe.vaciago, at gmail.com, and will be, chipolina73, at gmail.com, and then, your, perhaps, your telephone number, could be, a number, that is not your number, that you, that you can use, one shot, for the, verification code, and then you, can throw away, for other reason, and this is, another story, about what you can do, because for the telco issue, it's more difficult, but you can have, a lot of, potential solution, to put, so, the subscriber information, are not, the browser history, the IP address, because the IP address, in a certain sense, has a value, depends, again, if you don't use proxy, if you don't use door, or whatever, but as a value, the subscriber information, if you are a criminal, a cyber crime, cyber criminal, can have, some value, but not, too much, okay, so just to give you, the idea, that why, you can obtain, subscriber information, but subscriber information, are not, the, the, the, IP address, and the traffic data, even if, there is a confusion, because, but, just to, because for them, sometimes you will see, BSI, basic, cyber security information, there is also, the, IP address, when, of the first, registration log, so, they give you also, the name, what is present in the form, and also, the, the IP address, of the registration, that is an important information, and, there is this, mistake that, the provider, do, do, so, the law enforcement, can use this information, but this, this is a mistake, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know why, they give this IP address, that is in violation, of, also their rule, but this is another story, so, subscriber information, means, any information, contained in the form, of computer data, in any other form, that is held by a service provider, related to subscriber, of its service, other than traffic, or content data, and which can be established, the type of communication service used, the technical provision, take, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, postal or geographic address, telephone, on other access number, billing, and payment information, available on the basis of the service agreement or arrangement, and information on the site of the installation of a communication equipment, available on the basis of the service agreement or arrangement.

Okay, this is the definition, I can tell you for sure that basically is, it depends of what is the form that is contained by the provider. So theoretically, you can have a lot of information. Practically, you basically have this information apart, this question of the IP address that sometimes arrives, sometimes does not arrive, but are not traffic data. Search and seizure of stored computer data. Each party shall adopt such legislative and other measure as may be necessary to empower its competent authorities to search or similarly access a computer system or part of it and computer data stored, and a computer data storage medium in which computer data may be stored in its territory. So again, there is the possibility to empower its competent authorities to search a computer system or a computer data storage medium.

Again, this wonderful search and seizure of stored computer data. Yes, it has been implemented, but not in the sense that we wanted. that is, I can ask you to search and seizure. I'm an Italian prosecutor. I ask you to make a search and seizure to a UK or US citizen that is involved in a criminal proceeding in Italy. This was the idea. It's not like this. The practical implementation is that there is a specific power for the Italian authority to make this kind of search and seizure on computer data, but just in the Italian jurisdiction. This is another, just to tell you what happened in reality, but this is something that you can, you don't have to describe, obviously, to the exam. For the exam, it's important to give you the idea that there is this theoretical search and seizure of stored computer data search and seizure just to remember is perquisition and sequestro.

So the idea to take this kind of data. Real-time collection of traffic data. Authorities can collect or record traffic data in real time, either directly or by requiring services provided to assist in the collection. Wonderful activity. So they can also ask, imagine what I can also ask, I can ask to a French prosecutor or South African because they're no South African, no other, other state. You have to see what are the ratified Hungarian prosecutor to make a real-time collection of traffic data and give to me in real time that it could be really useful because with a real-time collection of IP address, I can also geolocate a person again if the IP is a good IP. Interception of content data. For serious offenses, authorities may intercept or record the content of specific communication in real time, either directly or through the cooperation of service providers.

So the idea to potentially also make a wiretapping and interception of data. So Article 21. So we can continue with this crescendo of tool that we can have. And then we have the mutual assistance. The party shall afford one other mutual assistance to the widest extent possible for the purpose of investigation of proceeding considering criminal offenses related to computer system. So in the case of computer system, computer data and whatever, there should be a mutual assistance. And that's why we created this mutual legal assistance treaty that I described before, that they create an expedited procedure. So a faster procedure rather than the one that I described. So the Minister of Justice, the other Minister of Justice. But in a practical point of view, yes, the mutual legal assistance treaty is a little bit faster, but it does not change the main problem that we have. Then we have the expedited preservation of stored computer data.

So we have the possibility not only to store traffic data, but also computer data stored in a server or whatever. So a party may request another party to order or otherwise obtain the preservation, the expected preservation of data stored by means of a computer system, locating within the territory of the other party, and the respect of which the requesting party intends to submit the request for mutual assistance for the search or similar access seizure or similar securing or disclosure data. This is, again, any kind of preservation, as I mentioned at the beginning, is something that is accepted by other countries. Because one thing is asking the data by using the convention, and the other thing is asking the preservation of data. There is a huge difference. And again, it's the strange things that, especially in Italy, because if you go in another country, when I was involved in international meeting, the other country used this tool of preservation.

In Italy, we don't use the preservation issue, the tool that is Article 29 and Article 16, if I remember well, regarding the traffic data. Yes, you have also here, I don't remember, I don't understand, you have here and the other, I don't, I also, I never understood why there are these duplications in my view, but it's not important for you, because you have to understand that all this tool, all this, you have to list this tool, and it's not important, the article, it's not important to learn by heart, all this kind of issue, just to know that there is the possibility to preserve data, traffic data, content data, store data, and then you can have the possibility to obtain traffic data, or content data, theoretically, now we will see Article 32, where in the course of execution of a request made portion to Article 29 to preserve traffic data concerning a specific communication, the requested party discovered that a service provider in another state was involved in the transmission of the communication, the requested party shall disclose to the request imparting a sufficient amount of traffic data to identify that service provider and the part through which the communication was transmitted.

After 25 years, I understood the difference. It's a good, I'm intelligent. No, then, the point is, why for me it's not important, because the Article 30, the Article 29, all these articles are not really applied, because there is the issue of Article 32. But, theoretically, the Article 30, 29, yes, because regarding the preservation, the articles that are not really applied are the articles that give the possibility to obtain directly the data. This is the issue. But anyway, this is because the differences in the last part is shall expedited to disclose the requested party a sufficient amount to identify that service provider. So, the idea is the identification of that service provider is not related to the traffic data that is connected to the other article.

Don't worry, it's really difficult, not only for me, but I imagine also for you to understand all the detail of the convention. The thing that is really important that you understand is the Article 32 that we will see here now. Then I will make a summary also today and then the next week just to give you an overview of what you have to know, because it's not really important, but it's useful to follow all the potential article, all the article, but again, it's not important to learn by heart this article. The only thing that is important to really understand is the Article 32, because this is the most important article of the convention. A party may, without the authorization of another party, without the authorization, without the authorization, access publicity available, store computer data, regardless of where the data is located geographically.

What is access publicity available? So it's open source. So I also explain this concept. This is the article that gives the possibility to take an evidence from Facebook, from Instagram, from TikTok, from whatever is open. And also here, then there is the discussion about what is open, because a social media profile is an open access information or not, because basically, if you read the terms and condition of the social profile, it's just, you have the permission if you are a Facebook or TikTok or Instagram user. But anyway, if you have the possibility to access is open, so if you see the definition is access publicly available, so any information between the member states can be taken by the police. It seems stupid, but it's important because, again, the data is not in your jurisdiction.

When you write a post on TikTok, you are not in the Italian jurisdiction. So that's why it's important, the Article 32a. But the really tricky and the article that was changed by the Russian government is the Article 32b, that is, access or receive through a computer system in its territory, store computer data located in another party, and this is the part that is important. if the party obtain the lawful and voluntary consent of the person who has the lawful authority to disclose the data to the party through that computer system. So, why it's crazy? Because from one side you have the possibility to have access to data without the authorization of another party, but if the party, so if the states, obtain the lawful, lawful, legale and voluntary consent of the person who has the lawful authority to disclose the data.

Who is the person that has the lawful authority to disclose the data? The provider. So, they have changed the article in the sense that at the very end yes, you can ask theoretically the data, but only if the provider has the lawful and this is basically there is no problem but the voluntary consent. So, if I ask to Google to give me data, Google can decide no, I don't like your name, I don't like the fact that you support this football team, so I don't give you the data because this is the voluntary consent. It's crazy in a convention to put the word voluntary and the word voluntary was put by Russian delegates and with this word every part of the other convention starts to be destroyed because there is a contradiction between what we have discussed before and the possibility for the provider to have this voluntary consent.

so the idea is we are in the end of the provider that is the person that has the person the entity I would say that has the lawful authority to disclose. Theoretically I can also give to one of you the data and you are the person that has the lawful authority but my data are normally not in the end of a person but are in the end of the provider and the provider now with this article 32b can decide if can give the data or not and this is the main issue that destroys all the wonderful work that was made in the convention that's why I pass through really fast to the other tool because at the very end the provider says okay but I have 32b so you cannot ask me anything because there is the possibility for me to have the voluntary consent and then I think that based on the ethics principle of Google of Meta of whatever I cannot give you this information so this part is clear for everybody because this is the part that is really important for the exam so article 32b is the main problem that we have and all the story of the hacking start in 2001 with article 32b because then the providers start to become not cooperative or not I would not say not cooperative they can decide case by case and this makes crazy because from one side the prosecutors start to have a lot of defamation and privacy issue that are not really important for them because we are discussing about reputation but start this reputation from the other side they lost the location on the other side they want to have the information because after the last five years before they can do whatever you want with the wire tapping and with the normal investigation and since 2002 2003 2004 they start to not have the information to do the investigation so this lack of information of the prosecutor creates a lot of frustration and then at the very end after 10 years they decide to okay I have to hack the computer because the only way to obtain the information is to enter in the computer because I have to see if I have the cooperation because again it's not true that the provider do not give the cooperation the provider give case by case the cooperation they have their guideline and when we talk about Google law meta law perhaps you have heard about some discussion that is an example of why we have Google law because now at the very end it's not the convention that decide if you have the data or not but it's Google that can decide if you have the possibility to do the investigation based on their sensibility clear okay for everybody so this is just the article what are the consequences it's already explained just a sentence of Michael of loin that is not really important to read also absolutely don't worry about the four principles are just the attempt of a transborder group of cybercrime convention committee that was proposed to implement article 32b that means we have this mess how we can solve this mess we create this transborder group and the transborder group said if the location of data is not known but the person having the power of disposal of the data is physical on the territory of national or central party law enforcement of this party may be able to search or otherwise access the data power of disposal approach so these transborder group of the council of europe that has the power to implement article 32b give the solution from the jurisdictional point of view to start the hacking system so because they have to justify as I explained since the beginning the legal hacking so as they have reached this situation that was an impossible situation for them to do the activity they do this kind of principle finally I would say just a couple of words about additional legal framework it's not important to know and it will not be a question for the exam but it's important for you to know that we have created a regulation in 2023 and the directive in 2023 to exchange evidence digital evidence around Europe and this regulation especially the regulation 1543 works very well so in the European context we started to have a good relation when we have to disclose digital evidence around member states the problem is that it's not really relevant the digital evidence because again if the digital evidence is stored in a computer where the data is owned by a US company I can have the cooperation of the European law enforcement French Germany or whatever but the problem is that if I use Google if I use Dropbox if I use any kind of US services to store the data we have to go to United States in any sense so yes there is a good cooperation around Europe but the problem is that Europe versus United States this is the issue and again I always say United States because it's something that we can reach theoretically because when we talk about other kind of server that are located in really other counting there is also this possibility it's absolutely quite impossible to obtain the data so I will stop now I would say that I stop now because it's important to you to I gave you a lot of information and then the next Friday that will be the last theoretical lesson I will come back to give you a list of the tool so you can read the slide and during this week and then I can give you the list of tools so there is more precision about the tool that is for me it's really clear from one side there are the preservation tool and from the other side there are the content tool and the production order tool but I can explain you a little bit better because it's important for you to have this kind of list that could be asked what is really important to learn by heart in a certain sense is the article 32b okay guys any question I'm here bye
