Okay, we can start from the last point last week about microforensics, but before, just a quick feedback on the lab, just a preliminary one. I started to look through, evaluate, and see the stuff that you delivered. It's not a significant sample, but it seems that the work was pretty good. A kind of remark, something in order to improve, well, there are some inconsistencies among different sections from the perspective of naming, acronyms used, the presentation style, this is not very significant, I noticed some small issues, some room for improvement in that field.

A stuff that might be improved, this is not very for everyone, just a preliminary feedback for what I have seen. The review function that the different roles can inject into the work might be improved, meaning the different roles can have a kind of gatekeeper, but I would say more review role. So it's nice if you put yourself with that kind of angle and critically evaluate and review what the different members, or even you, but with different point of view, did, in order to improve, if from different perspectives, might be the different ways of to improve, might be improved, might be improved, might be improved, might be improved, might be improved, may be improved, and stuff like that.

is not related to the fact that you specifically assumed a role or the fact that the role has been shared by the whole team member. This is perfectly fine and well I noticed that in some cases even if someone has chosen some specific role, even in that case, it might be improved this aspect. So it's not related to your choice to assign a role or not. This is completely fine either way. You can assume or not and this is not a problem. What I'm saying is just that at some point some of you should take the path of a different role and evaluate and can, by evaluating with that angle, the whole record and reach it with that different point of view. This is a preliminary remark according to what I've seen so far, which is a very small sample of what you did. This field is this feedback clear for everyone? Okay, perfect. But according to what I've seen, they are pretty good, good deliverables. Okay, getting back to, oh well, another note for today, we will have the first or more presentation in the last part of the last 25 minutes more or less.

So what I would expect, I will leave room to your classmate for the presentation. We may have a presentation or we may have a kind of debate, this is something we can do, meaning that during the presentation of your classmate, we may ask for clarification, we may ask for details exactly as we can do while I'm presenting. So you can raise hand and ask for further details. I hope this will not introduce too much complexity in the presentation, but I'm pretty confident that your your classmate will be pretty well prepared for answering that. And this is useful also from your perspective in order to clarify your understanding, because the homework presentation is...

all the homework presentations are part of the notions, the concept of this course, meaning that I may ask, probably not as a standing question, not a whole question by itself, but I may ask for the in part of some questions during the reading exam. Also concepts related to your homeworks. So they are part of the material of the course and you should be aware of that. So it's good to understand them as better as possible during, even during the presentation. Also I will upload the the report on the report on the report on the portal and you can go through that, etc. In the first part of the lesson, instead we get back to the network forensic topic. We started with network forensic, which is, well, honestly, most of the time, concepts related to network forensics related to network forensics are not enough by themselves, meaning that just using network based investigation is not very common to find all the relevant clues and information for a complete forensic case. Most of the time, most of the time, most of the time, most of the time network forensics is useful for complementary work in respect of an investigation. While, for example, file system forensics, in some cases, might be enough to conclude an investigation, it is not very common in case of network forensics, because it is more useful to, as I said, complement the different, the different phases. I mentioned last week, for example, to find out a kind of suspect online behavior in order to profile them, in order to understand it might be related to some specific actions, or if it has as well, by it I mean both individuals and organization, depending on the target of the investigation, if it has relevant motivations in order to perform a crime or a suspect action. Remember that in order to fulfill a forensic investigation, we need to have a logical explanation of all the actions performed, we need to have a logical explanation of all the actions performed, so the motivation is something very, very relevant. And well, what kind of information might be relevant for identification of sources, for example, what kind of accounts exist online, what kind of domain history related to an organization we may find in order to see the movement of data in different, for example, countries or DNS domains, what kind of analysis and then different profiles of individuals or of domains we might find. For getting information we might exploit network forensics, for example, acquiring remnants of internet usage, for example, in cyber stores, a previous version of an history, we may be we might be helped by way back machine site, we might be helped by Google maps that may map different views in different, in different years that may allow us for a fee, may help us for a physical investigation, and so on. This may be useful to, to collect information. And also, in those cases, we may have metadata that allow to state the exact condition at one specific point in time of some specific evidence. And well, by using online tools, or even local tools, or even local tools that investigate on the network, this might be helpful to identify assets like services, running services, positions of running services, topology of different hosts that may be under investigation, historical topologies, different topologies, different topologies, so movement of nodes, and relationships of that nodes in a period, in order to understand if a node might try to disguise the actions or enrich, empower the possibility of doing a massive denial of service attack, connecting to a huge number of service attack, connecting to a huge number of nodes that might be the bots of a campaign, just to mention some possible example, or identify the origin that might be historically related to a group, etc.

again, kind of complementary information to enrich the findings. And this might be suitable also for the final reporting, in which we can substantiate our final finding with publicly available information that can make clear and make clear the concept explained with further possibility to enrich the understanding. And this is a kind of resume of what we discussed last week, in order to correct the frame in our mind. Then I mentioned that we can go through a number of publicly available tools, and publicly available tools. About that, I should mention that historically, meaning a couple of years ago, five, ten years ago, the really open source intelligence, which is acquisition of information from open source sources, publicly available sources, services, was a lot more powerful than today, meaning that we had a lot of services that provide the information openly, for free, let's say. While nowadays, there are payments you need to access, access specific commercial services that are more effective than open source ones, that have, as a business, the acquisition, organization, and provision of information. Well, since this should not be very surprising, because nowadays we have even very famous cases of rich and well-known international organizations that are used by many different countries, and that provide services for billions of euros or dollars, if you prefer.

I think that I think that tools like that are nowadays very much enriched by artificial intelligence, computation, in order to filter, organize, and create reports for starting from the information gated. Some of them, some of them, some of them, a significant share of them are nowadays private. So, actually, I think that would be great. So, through that, in that context the direct explanation. So, is my forte turns out of this technology, this is an honest disclaimer that we should be aware of it, but in still we can access a lot of information that is publicly available, in order to find out a lot of information, so in those slides I mention the concept I mentioned the concept and also some samples of tools that can provide information.

We've already seen IP info, which is something that provides a lot of information, also from a physical perspective, real world information related to an organization, to an IP, to the topology and relationships of a network node with other ones. Here is an example of a very quick and simple investigation about a well-known IP address, which is from Google, this one in particular from a name server. We have also, we are capable to find out the information about the ownership of a specific IP address thanks to public organizations that register and manage internet names.

Again, in many cases, we might find a web phone band, a normal website that provides an interface in order to query about specific information. Here, for example, through the Whois lookup service, I can understand what kind of internet provider and what kind of network parameters we have in case of the Polito network. Again, what we can do is just connect through the website to a site.

I just open this one and ask for, well, any kind of information. Let's try with this one, for example, this one, since we are talking about IP addresses. And here we have basically the same type of information I provide on the slide about the provider, which is the GAR, the Unified University, managed network by the GAR organization.

How old it is that may allow us to understand if this is stable or if, from a forensic perspective, a new one that maybe has been created just for a campaign and so on, we have a lot of possible information. Also, I mentioned the topology of a site. Again, through the collection and combination of different, by using only the DNS lookup, where in the name server of multiple time about a domain and the related subdomains, we may result pretty quickly in a nice map that shows us the services, kind of protocols that are used inside the network that are used inside the network.

Like, for example, what are the name servers, the mail exchanger, the subdomains of a domain. Again, again, services like DNS dumpster are mixed, meaning they provide a good amount of services for free, may have enriched possibilities by subscription on that, but are still useful by normal investigation. Again, I can connect to DNS dumpster and here, as usual, I can put a domain or a specific host and, of course, the number of results may vary a lot. For example, if I just put the final web server, I do not retrieve too much, too many information like, okay, this is an alias, this is the real name associated to this IP managed by, again, Goh Consortium, but no particular information about DNS, about mail exchange, because we have just a simple host. This is a third level domain, so it is connected only to a specific host, basically, or a number of hosts for redundancy purposes, but not a full network topology.

How we can enrich this, how we can find out a larger set of information, for example, asking for the whole domain of Polito. Okay, let's see if we can answer in quick, okay, quick answer, which is nice. And here we have a by far larger set of nodes information registered for this domain, well, a very large one, and you might see that in order to do an investigation on a specific domain, we have a huge amount of information here that can be suitable for further investigation. This might be the first step, and then we can, for example, with more or less polite tools like Nmap in different flavors, we might find out what kind of services are available on those hosts, if there are, well, for example, versions that may have been subject of an attack, of a compromission, of an infection, and so on, depending on the type of forensic investigation we are doing.

And, of course, we have them organized in different record types, those are A types, so simple nodes, we have mail servers, we have different name servers, we have explanation of different steps, and also, as in the previous case, a map, well, which is not really readable here, but basically, we are not very much interested in exploring this graph, just to understand the fact that we have the graph map that explains the correlations between different nodes and IP addresses related to a name and to different kinds of DNS records, okay? Just to give you a flavor of how powerful might be, with very simple means this kind of investigation. While, of course, with a commercial tool like Shodan, we may have a specific investigation, powerful and specific investigation on even detailed, very interesting subdomains, like, for example, in the internet of things that are nowadays very pervasive to find out information.

And, well, as I said, when we have a map, we can continue with the understanding of the different nodes parameters, like operating system, like running services, and we might do that actively by an active strategy or even by a passive strategy, meaning we can run real scanning through a map in order to see what is the present posture of a node, or we may query existing databases of IPs of IPs, of nodes, and huge numbers of parameters related to that nodes, again, with tools like Shodan, or Chances, or nice to mention this one, because it is of a source, like Spiderfoot, that I invite you to run, but probably we will have, not in the next lab, but probably in some labs will be nice. Even if, as I mentioned nowadays, open tools like Spiderfoot are leaving, well, space, are not so performing like commercial ones, like Shodan, like Shodan, even if we can find out and get still some interesting information with this kind of of tools. Also, using normal functionalities, publicly, again, publicly available functionalities of search engines like Google, we may find out, well, specific, specifically querying through, for example, Google Docs, we may find out specific specific and security relevant information like alerts or note of incident, like for example, with this query inside Google, we may go through the pastbin.com in a site that provides information on incidents and alerts and find out if, well, there are some nodes of infection, leakage, and so on. Again, we may do that very, in a very simple way, we can just open our browser and and run it in our nice Google form, maybe Polytour, maybe more interesting, let's see.

Ah, yeah, for example, we have a student here, I hope, you know, one of the the students of this course, I don't remember this name, so I think it's fine, okay, good, this is nice, I hope, for example, this kind of leakage of a password and this student, just to mention an example, I don't think it's one of the students of this course, I don't remember this name, so I think it's fine, okay, good, this is nice, just to show an example of what kind of information we might easily find out through this kind of open source and complementary network for exit. Of course, we might find a lot of information about malicious campaign tools, very precious tools like VirusTotal allow a number of different services. Again, this is a kind of tokenized service, meaning if you basically pay or agree on a kind of collaboration with VirusTotal, you might ask for a number of information, otherwise the number of information you can get back is limited in size, basically in number of answers, but basically tools like VirusTotal allow for services like oh let me know if this archive or this website or this email a sign of infection and and VirusTotal allow to find out, looking through, asking to different malware analyzers and collecting all the different analyses can provide you an answer and also has a huge internal database of compromises that can be provided and explain if there is some some relationship, some malicious relationship with a specific IP address, again, linked to malicious activity. So again, information that allow to identify the involvement of of a node into a campaign or maybe the infection, the fact that the infection spread up to that node, okay?

I mentioned also the history, the associated, the previous the previous history and behavior of a specific node that allow you to understand if, well, another stuff that might be suspicious, not always is a final indication of something bad, but another suspicious aspect is the inconsistencies of the setup of the DNS domain inside a legitimate domain. Most of the many times, let's say, malicious domains that have been raised only for a quick campaign or a quick threat campaign, have errors inside the configuration or a strange type of configuration like no no MX or MS records, or on the contrary, maybe some records, but not A or AAA type of records, which may be suspicious and unusual, let's say, and this can be a clue, well, a flag that may be further investigated in order to understand if there is some problem. There are some sites that, for example, mention those facts and, well, raise a potential flag saying, oh, there are some risky aspects related to this domain, not because they are listed inside a malicious campaign, but maybe also, but because there are a typical configuration of the different name DNS records. Again, and this might be suspect, or even from an historical perspective, it changed the content of the different DNS records, changed in a strange way in the last weeks, days, maybe months, and this again might be a suspect fact.

That requires further investigation. Of course, part of the gathering of information of complementary aspect to investigate can be for particularly, but not only, but even for organizations, the accounts they have on social media, the kind of activities, for example, the creation of different posts in an atypical time or way, longer, shorter, atypical in any way, might be a sign of an inspection, of an infection, sorry, because this might be a kind of of fishing activities in order to fool different users by a fake post created by a malicious actor or after infection, for example. In any case, the analysis of the behavior, of the shape, of the type, and of the time of the activities can allow to find suspicious aspects to investigate from one side, but also in absence of suspicious activities in different phases, like the initial source identification, like the evidence collection, like the analysis, like even the reporting of your findings, might be enriched by the analysis of the online social media activities of the suspect actors.

And, well, of course, as you may understand, this kind of analysis might shape the form of our investigation, because we can profile the organization and the individuals in order to understand what kind of analysis might be performed. A nice factor, since we already mentioned that, that is the physical identification of and then a more in-depth profiling activity of a suspect through the analysis of images images that you can find online. For example, through the access to metadata of the images, in many cases, not very advanced ones, but when the suspect is not that skilled, you can still find GPS metadata inside a posted image.

And this can help to shape the behavior of the user. Or, again, with the tools provided by search engine through, for example, reverse image search. Nowadays are very common, the possibilities to put an image to put an image and ask for information even in absence of metadata inside the image. Because by similarity of a huge amount of database, of image database, that place, even in absence of metadata, can be identified. For example, I can put an image of an ancient church without any information and tools like Google, just that, can identify precisely the place of the image, and this can be a lot useful in finding the movement and details about the actions of a suspect.

Well, of course, analyzing social media activities and profiles, we can find out not all the information about the user, but also identify related actors, friends, organizations. Remember, very basically, in the journal case that we analyzed in the first weeks of this course, we found out by online activity, the connection with the competitors or the present organization. and then we were able to find out a motivation for the cause of action. And, well, we may also, nowadays, pretty easily using artificial intelligence shaping capabilities, identify the sentiment, the emotional state of a user, and then find out a psychological profile about some cause of action.

For example, in case of, this is very useful, I ran last year a thesis about this kind of topic. the tool developed allowed to identify using some tweets, with a good degree of accuracy, the fact that the tweet has been emitted by a specific criminal organization, particularly effective in case of a fundamentalist organization like Al-Qaeda, if I'm not wrong, yeah, something like that. And this, identifying patterns and emotional state, emphasis, usage of protection inside the tweets.

Other possible advanced automatic capabilities are, for example, individual identification inside images in order to find out relationships only by analyzing automatically and in a posted image on some social media activity. And you can imagine that this kind of information might enrich a lot the capability to identify actions, and relationships. And also from the other perspective, identify fake profiles, for example, because there are no, there are unusual relationships, I can create very easily a fake profile, but maybe the relationships are not very very significant. This is a suspect, a suspect fact that might allow to identify trolls, fake information, paid user only for creating kind of fake content, etc., etc., etc. Questions so far? Okay, I think we can continue the discussion about the anti-forensic techniques next week, because tomorrow we will have the lab. Now I will leave room to the presentation of your test mate that can reach this position and I allow...

So, are you connected to the virtual classroom? Come here, come here. I ask you to connect, so you can present the staff also to the remote user. Okay. Which is nice. And so we also, we can also recall this, this nice interaction. I'll promote you when I see you. Yeah, yeah, sure. And then I think you will be... And yes, I can... I will use my microphone.

You can use your laptop, yes. And yeah, your microphone, yeah, your microphone. And this microphone, yeah.

Sorry, I'm talking to the remote students. And there are some issues with, I think, Polito network we are trying to solve. Okay, good. Oh, maybe my microphone was muted.

Can you hear me now from the remote side? I can hear. Okay. I can, let's go. Okay. Okay. So this is the microphone, okay? Yes, it is. But how to move this slide from here? You should just... Okay. Yeah. Okay, good. Can I start? You can start. Okay. Very well. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm Niklas. And today I'm presenting my homework. The focus of this homework is on a very recent attack that fall under the category of the man in the severe attack, and in particular under a specific category that is the local privileged escalation attack.

Okay. First of all, here there's a brief summary of this vulnerability, and this vulnerability was classified as a high priority by Ubuntu, and it has a ICDSS3 discovery score. And the affected components are all the recent Ubuntu system, because the affected Ubuntu systems are 24.10 and 25.10. And these Ubuntu systems must run the snapconfine and systemdetamfiles components in order to perform this attack. The core of this attack resides in the globally accessible slash 10 folder that we have seen in the lecture that is dangerous because some components like snapconfine systemdetamfiles perform group privileges actions, and in this case they will have really consistent interaction between these two components.

But it is a very complicated and well-crafted attack, so I need to dissect this attack in five phases, and we will see them right now. To conclude the summary, the result of this attack is in fact a lot of privilege escalation, because we start as a normal user with a normal user permission, and we can gain, thanks to this attack, this attack are full root privileges in all the shared Ubuntu system. Okay, but before deep tagging in the, in the, in all the phases of this attack, I personally met all the techniques that were used in this attack with the, with the, with the ALTO of a standardized and a global standard that is called NITRI and TTDNCK.

And it is very useful because it's a standard that's a map every single, every single technique that can be used to exploit or to perform an attack. And it's every type of technique is mapped to a a particular unique ADIP. So I use this map to give like more a scientific purpose and a deep analysis to this type of attack. Okay. And to conclude, to conclude this part, this introductory part, I'm going to talk about the forensics methodology because first of all, this is a forensics analysis of this attack. So it's a forensics, forensics, forensics class. So first of all, first of all, what is the challenge to analyze this attack? All the, the, um, artifacts that we need to collect in order to prove that this attack has happened are highly ephemeral. In fact, the, uh, all the logs, all the artifacts in general that, uh, we need to recover are located in RAM, but also in a temp file system that is still located in the RAM, uh, in the, by the Linux operating system. And, uh, also the sockets that, as we know, are special files in Linux, because everything is treated as a file in Linux, and that they are a special file that acts as a buffer, and, uh, that, uh, uh, act as a buffer for any type of, uh, connection that, uh, can be local or over the internet, in this case, will be local.

And for all these reasons, we, we know that, uh, like forensics, uh, acquisition is strictly required because with static forensics, uh, method, uh, all this type of information, artifacts will be lost. So in order to address this challenge, we need to have a strict adherence to the order of volatility, and, uh, to recap this, uh, we obviously need to capture the volatile state, state first, in a RAM and, uh, on the processes, and I see also build the active sockets, and then maintain a strict chain of custody, custody, for example, via cryptographic action, in order to have some valid legal proofs of what we have collected. But let's start with the first phase. Uh, first of all, all the next slides, uh, and this current one are divided, are split in, um, two sides. The left side is the one that talks, that describes the attack, and the right one is the one that talks about the forensics evidence that we can collect, and how we can collect this collect the first evidence. So let's start. First of all, the attacker for this phase needs to preserve a particular folder, and this particular folder is inside, uh, the SNAP sandbox, because as we, as we said before, we need to, we are using the interaction between two components, and one of them is the SNAP confine. The SNAP confine, its role is simply to be the sandboxes, namespaces for all the applications that need to run on the Linux operating system, and, uh, that were installed with the SNAP, simply. So when, uh, um, an application that was installed, like, with SNAP, uh, needs to run, there's, um, a temporary action inside the slashtank file by the SNAP confine component. And, um, this, this action is performing inside this directory I pasted there. And, uh, we can use it as an example Firefox, but I put a generic, uh, because we can, uh, perform this attack on any kind of, uh, uh, sandbox. So, uh, the, uh, the attacker goal is to isolate the dot SNAP chile folder that is it, that is inside of this slashtank folder.

And, uh, the reason why he needs to isolate that, we will see that, that later in the next phase. So in order to isolate the, that's, but keeping the parent folder alive, uh, he still, he, he keep running, uh, simple, very simple, uh, uh, background script that keeps modifying the slashtank folder. Why that? We need to preserve the slashtank folder and the systemdtank files, the other component deletes all the state files. Oh, I think the microsoft sometimes it happens. Let's see if it's just the charge. Maybe if we put that here, but I suggest that you continue. Try. Okay. No, no. I can speak louder. It's not a problem. No.

Okay. And by the way, it's the only solution, but try again. Okay. Okay. Okay. Maybe if we leave it in the, in the power supply, it will work. Okay. I was saying that, uh, the systemdtank files is a component that periodically deletes all the state data inside the slashtank. And, uh, it deletes all the state data. What is the state data? Data that is, that has not been modified for 30 days. So we, the attacker hopes that the dot snap folder, uh, is not going to be modified for 30 days, but it needs to be sure that the parent folder is modified instead. And it performs the same script. So this is a, uh, a simple phase. This is the first one. And in order to capture, uh, uh, Uh, this phase, uh, this attacker phase, uh, I found the two useful, uh, useful commands that, uh, are journal, ctl, and stats. The first one, uh, is, uh, uh, outputs, uh, all the logs of the system, the time files. So we can see when, okay. It, the microphone died again. Okay. I can speak louder. Yeah. Right. That. Maybe.

We'll take some charge. Okay. Um, so the journal ctl simply outputs all the logs of the system, the 10 files and when, uh, it has performed the cleaning and, uh, on the other, uh, on the other end, the stat, uh, outputs, uh, the last modification of the, uh, of this particular folder. So we can, uh, search for a temporal correlation between the system clean up, clean up routine. And, uh, these, uh, uh, anonymous high frequency user modification. So these, uh, background script that runs and, uh, keep modifying the last modification, the, the last modification date of this folder. Okay. The next phase is the core phase. It's very difficult. So then in the next slide, I will recap briefly what, uh, I said, what I will say right now, but let's start. Okay.

The problem is that now the attacker wants, wants something very difficult. He wants to get access to the root only sandbox namespace because the slash temp is accessible from everyone, but you can on just simple chat, uh, jump into some folders that, that has been created by someone else. So you need a trick. And, uh, to perform this trick, we need two things. First of all, we need to run the snap send box and we can perform that as a normal user, but we don't run it like, uh, normally, but we set a flag that it's a debug mode. And, uh, this debug mode enables, uh, uh, the attacker to gain some time to perform his, uh, malicious attack. In fact, what happens?

He starts executing the snap box environment, but he set the flags. And at the same time, uh, he sets, uh, uh, socket AF unit socket with very, very small buffer. Why that? So that, uh, when the Firefox, uh, sandbox, uh, try to send some debug output to this, uh, buffer, the buffer like fills, uh, immediately. And, uh, he needs the user that creates the, uh, uh, this buffer to empty the buffer. So obviously the attacker is not going to empty the buffer, uh, in that exact moment, but it, uh, exploit a Linux, uh, a Linux, uh, trick that is, uh, that is, uh, traverses, uh, and, uh, access to that working directory in which he wants to perform the attack, uh, uh, searching for a process with the same feed. And, uh, he can, uh, he can perform the, the Linux command that is, uh, in this, uh, reported, uh, above the CD prop, then the feed number and the current work and working directory, which the district trick, you can get inside of that current working directory and fully quickly replace, uh, the dot snap, um, the dots folder with the, it's malicious one. Very nice. Okay. I think, uh, we are, uh, giving a little out of time for today.

Okay. But I think we can stop here and then continue next week. You may have a, uh, a quick recap and then conclude the, the presentation. Okay. I check it that we, that there is, uh, a lesson in the, in the next hour, but I think, well, we had some, uh, some problem, uh, with, with the neck or the spine. I recommend you in general, who of you who are doing an homework to stick, uh, in, uh, 15 minutes more or less, but, uh, this is nice. This is the first presentation. We had some, uh, some problem. And I think that we are in a, in a good point in order to leave some excitement for, for the next, uh, for the next part. Okay. So you can ask yourself, uh, what can happen next and start to understand the very interesting reconstruction that you, that you are doing. So for the moment, I thank you for the work and then not tomorrow, but the next week we will continue with a small recap and then you can conclude with your presentation. Okay. For the moment, thank you very much. Very interesting. I think we agree with that. It is. And, uh, for today it's, uh, it's all. Thank you.

