I don't know. I don't know.

I don't know. I don't know. Good morning to everybody.

Today we will have the presentation of the case made by you. So I will more than happy to hear you. And I imagine that you remember what I said last Friday, so basically we did not have the time, but we are going to do this work. I have read your work. I have some comments, but before giving my comments, I will give you five minutes for every group that gives me the... We are talking about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. I don't know if everybody is present. So for the time being, we can start with Luca Ferretti, Michele Suffredini and Christian Chiappa. Who wants to start this group? Okay, who wants to be the speaker? Yes.

And probably... Okay. If you want, you can also... But the purpose is that you should be here by the class. You can also stay if you want to stay as you want. Okay. Please, guys. So basically, we are... We consider ourselves the risk department of digital identity. And upon arrival on the scene, so the house of the victim in Via Giovanni, bus 329, we immediately found out a primary gateway.

It was a Pirelli-Alicia gate W2+. And we found out that it was in a power state on, power on state. And we determined that if we disconnect the device, it will eliminate all the logs in the hard cache and the DHCP disk table. And so we proceed with a live acquisition. That was the only viable option in the case. And for the acquisition, we evaluate that it was not possible to connect a red blocker, since there is no external storage media. And so we decide to connect a forensically sound workstation that we bring from our lab and connect it to the initial gate through LAN port 1.

And we basically captured the system logs using a secure administrative access. And we stored those logs into a forensically stereo drive that we also bring from the lab. And then immediately after the collection of the logs of the gateway, we perform an hashing of the evidences using the algorithm SHA-256. So, and this is also a fundamental part of the chain of custody for the integrity. So, by storing the hash, we confirm that any later modification and analysis performed on those logs will be detected.

And basically, we focus on the analysis on the DHCP hack. So, they acknowledge a packet that the gateway is sent to the phone of the suspect. And after the packet was sent, basically, the connection is alive, and so the phone is communicating, is connecting with the network. And basically, we found out that after the DHCP hack was found, basically, there was a temporary window from 9.20. 9.11 and 9.24, from which the device was still connected to the gateway.

And also, we did some analysis on the RSSI, so the string signal level, to understand also the distance from the gateway. And we also found, by doing this analysis, we found that it was an approaching phase where the signal strength increased, then there was a present phase where the signal stabilised at minus 42 dBm, indicating, indicating that the device was inside the home of the victim at that time, and the departure phase where there was a decay in the signal strength, and also a subsequent deauthentication event that happens at 9.20. Actually, total hour and abstract case. Actually, this and the case study that it will be allegedly arbitrary.

Similarly, by conducting this analysis, we found out, as I said before, that it was the presence of the suspect device, so the macadres of the suspect device, and was found, was present in the home of the victim at that precise time. And by also analyzing the workstation of the suspect that indicated the suspect was working on this thesis and other pornographic activity at 9.35. And so basically, there was a, I think that, and so that the conclusion that was inside the home of the suspect at that time, and it has all the time to go home.

What does it mean? The victim was in the house of the victim at that time, and then it has the time at 9.35 to go home and work on the laptop. Okay, so I think that the presentation was perfect in a certain sense. What are the limits of this work, in my view? That, okay, you concentrate yourself just on one point, you didn't have so much time, so I think that you put a lot of evidence, and also the path that you used for me was good. The point is that you should use a glossary when you make any kind of technical consultancy, even if it's not for a judge, but also if it's for a company or anyway. The glossary is really important because, not for me, I would say, but for a normal person, when you start with the primary gateway, you lost the technical part.

So, in a certain sense, it's not useful to stop and explain any single technical aspect in a non-technical way. I think that the glossary is the good way to proceed. So, you put, especially now that we have AI, so you can do this really fast because you can create automatically, in a certain sense, you tag all the words that you think that are not so easy, and then you put the glossary. So, this is the first advice that I have to give you. And also in the presentation, you should start with the conclusion in any situation. You should start with the thesis, and then you go through the evidence. So, also in a presentation, it's good to have an executive summary, but it's not fundamental, but it's good to have. But especially in the oral presentation, you should, I want to demonstrate this. This is my thesis. And then I, you go through.

Grounded on the evidence. Yes. This is grounded on the evidence. But having said that, it was, for me, a wonderful work. Then I will make the final evaluation. Thanks. Thanks. Okay. Now, I go by chance. So, now it's the turn of, there is no written, Claudia Passaro. Yeah, we can wait a little bit. So, perhaps she will arrive. She will arrive. Do you do not? Okay. Okay. So, we can go, we can pass through the other one. Okay. Giacomo Pettinato, Simone Todd, Edoardo Brignone, Livia Cari, Deborah Abini. Okay.

Yes, you can start. Okay. The source of our analysis was to demonstrate that the suspect was in front of his PC during the timeline of the time. Um, since, uh, several pornography files has been found in the PC, we analyzed the fact that these files came from, uh, uh, this new content software. And together with them, uh, he, uh, downloaded a raft. Raft, uh, stays for remote access destroyer. And, uh, uh, uh, uh, gives, uh, to the attacker the privileges to control the computer of, uh, the target, um, uh, PC. Um, in, uh, this case, this raft was made to activate the webcam of the infected computer without, uh, the knowledge of the victim. So, uh, this raft, um, saved, uh, in a video directly, some videos, some, uh, images of, uh, what the webcam recorded.

And in this case, uh, we have found out, uh, uh, with our, uh, uh, investigation that, uh, the, the suspect was, uh, in front of, uh, of the PC during the timeline of the, um, of the time, because, uh, this, uh, hidden directly has been found during our investigation. And, um, in, uh, the picture there was the date and time of when this video was recorded. Sorry if I interrupt you. I would like to understand a little bit better how we, how is possible from a technical point of view that you have that kind of image with the forensics analysis. Okay. Uh, the. Explain how it works. Remote access Trojan. Yes. Yes. Um, the remote access Trojan saved these images. I don't think it's working anymore. Yeah. I know. Uh, the battery is carried. Um, these, um, um, uh, uh, malware, uh, saved, uh, these files on a hidden and hidden directory, but, uh, the directory was hidden by the user. He cannot see that, but, uh, from a forensic point of view, we have retrieved that hidden directory, uh, using, uh, when this, uh, malware was put in the, uh, in the, uh, in the laptop of the, uh, download of, uh, the portal file that had been found on the computer. The cool.

Okay. So, okay. Okay. The forensic investigation revealed that this found this, uh, uh, this, uh, this, uh, this, uh, files were, uh, were downloaded by the software department. Okay. Okay. That was, uh, very famous in 2007. It's true. And since these images, uh, show time and the, um, date of, uh, the recording and they have been found using, um, forensic copy, uh, uh, we have, uh, uh, the, uh, searching that, uh, he was in front of the computer during the timeline of when the crime was committed. Yeah. Yeah. Can you go through the anti-forensics consideration?

Okay. Uh, we are, uh, sure that, uh, the, uh, the victim, uh, the, the owner of the infected computer was not aware of this, uh, um, this malware. That's because, uh, uh, the, uh, the, uh, that actually was hidden by, uh, by him. So he had, he had not seen that. And, uh, uh, um, this type of malware has, um, um, um, one of his characteristics is, uh, the fact that, uh, he cannot be, he cannot be detected by anti-virus from tomorrow. So if it was perfect and, uh, um, we, we were able to, to find it only using a TG copy. Okay. Okay. Well, um, finished any kind of other comments?

Okay. I, I, my, my, my comments is that, uh, I really, really appreciate the, that in a short time you did, uh, uh, a good, uh, work obviously with the help of AI, it's, it's obvious, but, but, but it's, uh, also the presentation, um, the idea also to put, uh, even if it's from a legal standpoint, I'm not sure, uh, the, the logo of Polytechnic of Turin and all this kind of, uh, stuff, it's, it's, it's, uh, amazing because, uh, it's so important how you can present the, the document and the abstract was a, was a good idea, was a good idea. Um, I, I, I, I ask you again about the, the, the, the strategy that you use because in a certain sense, uh, uh, as I explain in a clear Italian way, the, the, the, the, the idea that you have is really good because it was really creative idea. So the, the, I appreciate the, the idea that you, you, you start to think at a, as something, a realistic possibility, but it also the realistic possibility could happen because yes, it's, it's realistic that you can have a malware when you go on pornographic content, especially in 2006, this kind of things happened, but the, the, the, the, the connection of the malware and the possibility to have the, the image, uh, connected with the exit timestamp, it's something that it could be not really probable, but, uh, or likely, but, but it's, anyway, also the unlikely, unlikely things happens. So the, the only issue is that rather to the the other presentation, the other presentation was a little bit more, in my view, realistic, rather than the new representation, but from a formal point of view, I really appreciate the, the, the, the, and also the, the, the, the fact that it was really simple also for a non-technical person to understand, uh, what, what, what, what it was written. Okay. Thanks a lot.

Okay. Emiliano Salvetto, Salvatore Francesco Indino, Jacopo Nicola, Alessio Giumarra. Okay. Wait a second. If you don't have the laptop, I will. No, no, no, no, no. Usa il mio, è meglio. È meglio, così almeno lo presenti tu. Solo che devo essere a report, che è l'asco case, si chiama.

Okay, questo. Condivido. Okay. Please. So, the mandate of our forensic analysis was to reconstruct a digital art build for our suspect, in particular regarding the temporal window of the morning of August 13th, 2007, and determine the physical presence of the suspect at home during the presumed, uh, that time of the victim. We first, uh, stated, uh, the evidence, uh, item registry. The three items were the laptop of the suspect, uh, his mobile phone and, uh, the CDR and the alarm logs for the victims. Uh, in particular, uh, our investigation... Can I tell her, too? Um, where is it? Okay, cool. ...was focused on, um, the fact that, uh, the evidence were contaminated during the first hours of investigation, the first days. Um, uh, so, uh, the 73.8% of the visual files, uh, were outreaded by investigators, uh, themselves.

Um, so, um, however, uh, with the greater of this, uh, uh, uh, forensic analysis and, uh, authorities were able to hold, uh, the cell phone calls and, uh, used to look fine about position for, uh, more time than, uh, before after the horrific attacks in, uh, London. And, uh, also the use of metadata was, uh, fundamental in, uh, this phase. Uh, so we followed the standard forensic pipelines, and in particular, so we realized the metadata since the system logs were, uh, altered and, uh, uh, so we're not, um, uh, useful, uh, we're not still useful. Um, so we, um, okay? Excuse me again. We focused on reconstructing the timeline. We know that, uh, at 9.35, we have the system startup and activation of the operating system logs, so this was not altered. Uh, then, uh, after three minutes and for about 30 minutes, we have, uh, interaction with documents of a road report and rapid thumbnails. Um, and then at 9.44, we have the first cell phone call, um, from the suspect to the victim, uh, without any response. Uh, then we have, uh, uh, uh, uh, the suspect reciled, uh, a call from his mother on his landline phone so we know for sure that at this time the suspect was at home and after 15 minutes then we have uh work processing activities on his thesis this was reconstructed then to the metadata that have a solution count and in time that require manual inputs and can also be artificially alterated and this is so compatible with the presence of the suspect at home at 10 30 we assume the victim that time here while in the next 15 minutes we have a seven call from the suspect phone to the victim's mobile but due to the scars signal only one was saved on the victim mobile and moreover this is strictly linked to the metadata in fact we can through the metadata we can see that when the subject stops to type is when we see these calls on the registers uh 11 37 is we what we see is very interesting because we have an anonymous call uh to the victim cell phone um two probabilistic analysis uh is uh probably uh the uh originated from the from the suspect family land iphone which had a private number at the time and then in the last hour we have a final sequence of call both from the suspect mobile and from either land iphone that are so anonymous this can confirm that also the call at 11 37 is probably made by israel and phone and confirm his presence at home um so linking in this with uh the island system logs that are 912 uh demonstrate a sign of live uh demonstrate a sign of life from the victim that uh turned off his error alarm um we have uh so the alibi in the um the event data from uh 10 17 to 20 to 12 20 um moreover we have also the telecommunication attribution uh and then we have the pc inactivity correlation between the metadata and uh posing for uh calling the victim moreover we also have uh uh checked through the network cell logs and we can confirm that the mobile never left the victim residence um this is not approved by itself because the the suspect could also leave his home without his mobile yes but correlating it with all the other uh can help us in an understanding of what happened that morning so we can highly probably um assume that our the our metadata are realistic and uh so they can demonstrate the use the continuous use of uh the pc during that uh during that morning and this can imply that uh our suspect was not present at the big system during the time of death uh i i really appreciate this work i have to admit for for a lot of reasons then i will try to present for for your work for for the activity why i i like this work even if it was not perfect the the executive summary i would say the conclusion but i didn't say i want to see how you approach for the first time probably a technical consultancy i really i really like the scope the evidence item registry the constraint because you follow also my suggestion to underline the potential constraint and the methodology so this part is really probably it was also helped by by by ai but i think that was a good approach and i really like this i also like the fact that you make a combination between the two parts and you put in a probabilistic way the fact that you have the connection between the log file you also put the pisano issue that was a good um idea that you had because during that era but also now we have the same situation just to be clear but there was also this decree that give you a a a longer um possibility to obtain traffic data data and then you also put this timeline that was a really complete and this all this all this all this part i think that is a really well done so compliments thanks thanks okay so this is but it's not present now so we can go through sternativo casellato vernuccio and medveshek practically a thesis i think something will take two hours to do this one no i'm joking i'm joking who is the okay thank you okay so uh i start from the overview of the case oh wait a second sorry sorry okay yes thanks um so the date involves the murder of a young man uh on the third date of august 2007 in his month italian time uh the victim's body uh the victim's boyfriend was eventually convicted and sentenced to 16 years um in prison but after a long commercial battle that included the two initial acquittance athletes later overturned by the super report so um our goal was to evaluate whether the forensic evidence actually supports this conviction and to do so we reconstructed the timeline of the very young morning using only object-free verifiable data for example gps records cctv footage and isp logs laptop articles and university servers timestamps which was fundamental for our pieces and also the mobile phone cell records so at first we did the timeline of the events in the case but we can skip this part if it was only to show that it took several years and um since uh these so recent developments the case is seen an update um due to new forensic technologies so firstly a new suspect was found uh because uh the new dna since we did the new dna analysis a friend of the victim's brother has been identified as a potential suspect and also the time of that provision which was um later um moved on after 13 years from the previous um the previous analysis they did so since we have a lot of new evidence we we tried to uh to defend the suspect and this was the first of the scope and the most important part is the detailed event timeline which was the investigation since the suspect's vehicle um was tracked at home from 7 30 in the morning till 11 13. so the gps driver of the vehicle showed the cars that the car was parked by the suspect residence for all the morning okay since this could be early or not but we've become relevant since the house of the victim was 4.2 kilometers away from the house of the suspect okay and in fact we at 8 45 the victim's house alarm was activated uh which is the time to go the external time stamp of the alarm control unit and tripped it as undisputed our data point by both reports but at 8 52 the suspect returns to the apartment so with the condo cctv which are the video camera of the time but they are still nowadays and they are more um better um better um better made like the security camera records the suspect and during after 8 52 which was improbable that him instead of means could um join and go by walk to the meeting house okay okay so uh with this um ddr ntp synchronization no exit record until the until half past so the distance between us as i said was 41 2 kilometers so this is undisputable uh but also we we saw that at 9 18 the laptop started with system log and isp log and in fact from the suspect to the router met just at 9 18 there was a dhcp request from the laptop of the suspect and also a lot of web browsing in the morning and uh continuous http https traffic to external server and um so converging evidence and um another poll was that also in university um so uh um we have the university in several records at the same time so it was approved that it was warning actually on the disease that was sending made to the university in the server and uh uh also we have a um a pretty important probe that was a post from the connected cell which is uh uh which was uh 300 meters away or only the suspect's neighbors so it couldn't reach this called the house of the victim and uh at the end uh half uh uh quarter past 12 the victim's body was found because then it was called emergency and uh at half past 12 the suspect leaves the condom so uh we saw that also with the cctv records um so um the most important part for us was that uh the distance from the house was 4.2 kilometers but also all the isp router loads and active word processing on the stasis of by the the suspect so it was a pretty clear road that also the university couldn't uh invent such pros to deliver him uh um disaster and so also there is a limitation of our case um as i said before um probably that no one could the issue they have uh asked many people to invent such pros to to declare him uh actually uh the suspect and the uh the one who committed the prime so because this was our thesis and the chain of facilities just to uh for the localized aliens that use the cctv footage acquired from the condominiums vdr ddr system and that was not only exported the video files and the suspect's lab don't turn around lost you and again methodology okay okay yes thanks um okay um and then also the alarm control we made that was the electronic time sample of both the victim house so and then um we also mentioned the forensic tools and analysis environment uh the acquisition environment where our drives from the suspect's lab lab bot and ddr system and also the generated images adhere to the property and case evidence file format ensuring that the mutable payload which was the in the part in most of the part also with this analysis software and the network and gps both analytics okay thanks a lot okay i i i really appreciate this work because it's made very well i i i like it and um also the presentation was really long in a certain sense that it takes two points because i i i also give you this potential homework for you um but and then it's it's important because oh i want to tell you now this part because and it could be again a potential homework for you but if you write a lot there is a lot of risk that someone can argue some part so you should take in consideration that the clarity is fundamental obviously and i think that this part was clear to me i was attracted because i also the presentation was like a thesis i i approach so i i read it and i i found it really well written even if again it's it's ai so it's a it's it's normal that it's well written but even also the the the prompt that you use is is an index of the fact that you want to be clear but also there was a lot of elements so um the homework is is if you want to to find this or other if you authorize me obviously to to to put this work on the material uh in the in the in the uh in my page in the the the university page you can you can try to find the error of the work of another one so if you find the sum and you're able to argue uh the fact that there are errors in one of the other technical consultancy you obtain an extra point why it's important this work because when you are uh when you are going to make digital forensics the the the most important work is not to um to do your technical consultancy but it happens a lot of time that you have to contest another technical consultancy so to find a mistake to find an inconsistency on the work that for example you you do so this is it's it's another part so my my my my feeling even if i really appreciate this work again it's not a critics to this work it's that you put a lot of elements okay uh but anyway i i really appreciate thanks a lot okay now now we have already did no it's correct so um okay first yes did this is uh it is she's arrived okay so we can we can do this one um so we based our analysis over the alarm device since it was not compromised by the police uh firstly we analyzed also the log that there was over the alarm uh we think that it was a premeditated murder so there was a uh informatic accomplice and like that we we think that stasi started uh arrived to the house of chiara and disarm the alarm at 8 27 after that he inserted the code wrong and then after that he reactivated the alarm then he had a window of 40 minutes to perform the order and after that he reactivated the alarm in order to uh left some evidence that there was someone at the house and like that we think that we think that of course there was chiara and um this alarm was uh based by it was had a database sql and he had to take it at the table one of the successful login another one of the errors failure right and since there was this um agreement between stasi and the accomplice and the accomplice uh he deleted all the success successful table except for the one of 19 of 9 21 9 12 but he didn't delete the the table of the failure so there was this trace about the failure and like that by looking at stable it gave us a think about what we did after um and then after that we found out about the accomplice so we uh think also that the accomplice was the one that modified the uh browser history and we think that of course that um stasi made his own research in the afternoon and then after that the accomplice was the one that modified the timestamp and uh moved them to the to the morning okay and uh so this needed to find out the accomplice so we analyzed also the device of the accomplice and the pc we found out how did you find the accomplice the name of the accomplice it means the hybrid prosecutor okay no no just just to be okay and um and after that we analyzed the device that served the accomplice and find out that he there were some research on the internet about the murder how to delete some logs so both about the murder and the informatic uh part of the murder of the case and we analyzed also the um the cookies because he didn't delete the cookies and the cookies left some evidence about this uh how to perform the murder and also things like that and exactly that we we accused okay thanks a lot thank you i like i like i like this work because it was the the i don't know if there are other one but i think for the the only one that uh used the digitally by thesis i don't know if if there was another work like this and i don't have i have to admit i don't have the elements and that's why i i really like if someone someone will contest you this um thesis obviously not uh putting because i was joking before yes the the idea you are correct when you say it's not my job to to see to to know who's i was curious if you have thought about it but again it's not your job to know the name of the the accomplice um so it's not this is the part that i want that you argue but the technical part if it's not consistent to have this kind of evidence so i don't have the elements but i i think that for my experience it's a it's it's a good work because in my view it makes sense what you say also the part of the back date of the web navigation that you don't probably mention too much but it was uh was it was important for me so okay thanks a lot very good work thank you thanks okay then okay so we have one then this is done done the only one that it last is is your do you want to present no you want to because you you write me that it was just in okay so someone that is missing ah sorry sorry sorry sorry sorry sorry this one okay please because i was thinking that it's similar to another one i was thinking that it was already made better if you use mine and make the presentation for you okay we took the part of the defense and we demonstrated that there was no automatic script that generated the work on the on the thesis and working on the the digital evidences we found also a log from a mail server and therefore we concluded that that the study was not was not did not prepare any script that made this work and instead was at his home during this work work okay then the professor asked us to to take this treat i hope that it was a good and so what is the can you describe a little bit yeah i have divided yeah i did ah okay okay so unlike the police at that time we actually were at the station during the date in which the murder was committed so we were able to perform the device acquisition right after and ensure that no tempering was was caused uh by the police who looked into into the device uh without the proper measures so instead we have uh documented every step that we have taken um including the insertion of a right blocker to um actually prevents sorry if i interrupt just curiosity but in 2007 it was a present in the horizon 9 workstation uh it was consistent with the time this kind of okay no just a mistake because we've written dell altiplex gx 620 is the model yeah and then uh down here it's been connected this is the the workstation of our laboratory so it's modern it's modern because it's up to the it's okay so you did the activity now in 2026 yeah okay okay this is interesting after 19 years so all the all the device can be not alterated not do you know that there is a life of a device after 20 years have you considered this uh yes of course yeah nowadays we have this workstation okay okay okay no no just so um we have uh documented the uh models uh of the right blockers and the hashes of the evidence that we have taken uh before like the hashing was done before um the uh evidence is acquired and uh we have used two uh md5 hash and uh uh sha 256 and uh after uh acquiring the imaging of the disk with uh autopsy as a software uh we have uh re-computed the hashes and uh proved that they match so there was no tempering introduced by our team of investigators uh and then uh using the uh other tools that uh inspect also uh low level low level analysis uh such as the inspection of uh ram and allocated space we have uh proceeded with uh finding out uh evidence that uh proved the lack of the script as marta said and uh the actual presence um of this aspect uh in front of the computer during the day of the murder so the first evidence is the the work on progression in fact analyzing the the ram and the recovered out to say fragment we can uh saw that between the timeline from 1914 to 10 to 10 the document grew by 45 words and this is uh evidence because uh we can relate this uh behavior to a human behavior and not like a strict uh script indeed like the with this uh formula we can analyze the number of words uh write it in one minute it is 15 so analyzing the sector is one we can identify the string that inside that there is a a share representation of backspace this is approved that also errors during the uh during the days it was uh performed and uh we can conduct to a human behavior not like a school you don't okay um sorry if i interrupt you because but what if if i recorded before this kind of activity and then with the human touch and then i i put play in that moment in that moment do you have excluded these elements as you correctly put this element that is really interesting it's a good point the word count progression and you say yes as also there was the mistake and all this kind of stuff demonstrate a human touch but do you have you consider also these other hypotheses the fact that it was recorded before by him and then use a software to put in execution this kind of uh we assume that also the bob says that he's not uh expert about computer science okay without and i okay perfect you you did this kind of image also in the log of the browser we found an xtp traffic regarded the province university and your name so we can prove that in this timeline uh bob sent an email to the professor about your status okay and then another evidence that we analyzed is the the logs about the mouse movement so um for analyzing them we we considered for three factors so the perfect linearity of like uh we want to analyze them to compare it with a possible script uh produced movement of the mouse so um when you produce um an artificial movement of the mouse you the script usually has a perfect linearity so uh it goes linearly on the screen or it tries to um to follow some artificial course but uh that are like um that are perfect course so that was uh one part of the evidence that we have analyzed and also uh we take in consideration the overshoot and correction factor uh that uh means that when a human tries to press a boot a button uh you have a small movement before and after the depressing uh moment so um so that were the three factors that we consider and by analyzing the the logs that we found on the pc uh we saw that all these three elements were missing so like we didn't have perfect linearity we didn't have artificial course or uh and we had some error correction in pressing buttons so um for this we like uh we we found that the movement was real from general for was person generated and not script generated and then also we analyzed some browser navigation chronology and we found that it he searches and did some searches uh that were related to the to the thesis so after all this evidence uh analyzing uh we found that uh um it was um well you had the proof that it was present and it was uh really doing the the work on his pc okay thanks a lot thanks also this work for me was uh really complete i think that is the most complete about all the analysis that we did uh rather the other one so i i i i also appreciate the fact that you make the presentation all together uh but this is not the elements i think that this digital forensics expert report is is is is i i i think that your digital forensics expert report and what is the the last one what did your name that that that that group i think that they are the two that are the best two also the other one i would also appreciate your work because and your work because was was interesting and well presented but i think that the most most two that for me are really uh interesting for me are your work and your work also i like again the presentation for example that they receive for the other one but this is the the the two at the very end i prefer the other one and not yours sorry for that because because i think that they they use in a in a simple way uh all the elements all the suggestions that they put in the presentation so i don't want to to start and that that's why i give you the opportunity to obtain the point if you want to argue my decision by making a um sorry um i know i don't i don't also know what the the the the the word in in italy so i in italian i would say that a contestation of the um um this presentation uh because you are the counterpart so the the the role that you can use is the to to make an analysis and you have to analyze the the mistake of one of the other as i explained before but again if you see here you concentrated a lot about the evidence a lot about the evidence and there is a lot of evidence really really a lot of evidence but a little bit less of methodology a little bit of constraint all the other elements that should be present in a presentation so from the work that you did i think that you are the best because you did a lot of analysis uh thoughts a lot of about the human touch that it could be for me contested but it's just my opinion as i try to to argue but it was really interesting your work so about the evidence but about the methodology i prefer that work okay thanks a lot so yes yes absolutely i'm really sorry that i didn't give you that i was i thought that it was the last one no no go go go can't absolutely and you can change it to make what restaurant yes ma dov'on're you have to upload it no no go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go do sorry no okay so maybe you have to have done the discussion of email and Okay, so basically I find it in the elaboration.

Yes. I'm going to put it in the log. I'm going to put it in the... Okay. Dov'è che sarebbe? Material didattico? Dov'è che possono essere? Elaborati. Elaborati, okay. Wow. Ma questi sono tutti... Non è relativo a... No, c'è un 23 siete voi. Audo Gabriele, no? No. Come la chiamate? Si chiama Lab... Come vi chiamate? Falco. Falco, eccolo qua. Falco Aleisco, che era la scucchese. Perfetto, è lui. Other one that uses Elaborati to do this work. Do you prefer to use Elaborati to put here? What do you prefer? The same for me. I didn't... No, it's the first time that I knew the Elaborati issues.

Okay, okay. We can use Elaborati for the next time. Okay. Wait a second. Okay. Yes, and also if you can present, so it's better for the person to use this. It's the same. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, we brought up decisive evidence for the defense of the suspect, Albert Costasi. In particular, we already know that at approximately 9.12, there is the first key element when Chiara Bocci disabled the home alarm system.

And as strong evidence we have that about at 9.35, on the Albert Costasi laptop, there were some activity. So, here is a bit of the reconstructed timeline. And now, upon a simulation that some fundamental information could be extracted from the alarm system of Chiara Bocci. We discovered that in the EEPROM memory, there were other sensor movement slots which are posing, and here in the timeline, someone at the time of the murder, and also sometime later, at about 9.43, still, in the house, which confirms human movement inside the house.

Well, of course, we have a kind of proof of the authenticity of the web provider locks, which are posing, as well, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, around 9.38 and 9.50. Also, from these informations, which are basically the 5.0 IP address, the unique session cookies, we can be sure that it was actually him. And so, well, of course, here is the safe acquisition of the alarm control unit, which, again, I repeat it, in the EEPROM memory, it was, from the interface, it was, were acquired many sensor movement locks, which, for sure, are causing someone still in, at the, at Oji's house.

And, of course, there have been, it passed, validation tests of the, of these locks, which, in our case, we know that are not sufficient for, uh, detecting, uh, the possible true murder. Uh, but, uh, uh, the point, uh, after the technical meaning of the evidence, of the evidence, which is clearly that, at around 9.33 and 9.44, there was still someone at home. Uh, yes, and also some glossary for the code. Wonderful. Thank you. Um, okay. Well, the final point is that, uh, if it's true that, uh, Stasis PC were used by him at around 9.35, and the alarm system placed movement inside podgesome at 9.44, for, since the disactivation, and further on.

Uh, both sources are independent and technically validated, and, therefore, this combination of incoherence, I think, this is enough to pose a credible doubt about the, uh, innocence, what the innocence is, uh, of the suspect. Thanks a lot. Good work. The glossary was a wonderful point that you take, uh, took. Um, I, my suggestion is to put at the end the glossary as a sort of appendix, if I may. It's, I don't, I don't want to impose anything because it's, there is no, a rule, but, uh, in my view, my suggestion is to put from a logical point of view, but it's, uh, not impossible. It's, uh, not important point. It's, it talks a little bit about methodology, in my view, uh, but there was a lot of elements, uh, and, uh, and, um, and I think that it was one of the best work, uh, again, with you, the other group, and your group, but I continue to prefer that work.

So sorry guys for that. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So we can take a coffee and then, uh, we can, uh, if you have any other doubt, uh, uh, point, uh, we can, uh, you can, uh, talk to me and then we can start again at 10, 10. Uh, and, uh, and, uh, and then we will do the other work about, uh, a team and, uh, uh, remote, uh, forensics. 咧. Certo. Certo. Certo. Certo. Certo. ... Sì, mi ricordo. Anno, �? ... Well, u, now you're still talking about. ... This time has... ... just that I didn't know the last time, everything that is done in the class, and for me it is done rigorously in the class, so maybe we can suspend it, then one can. It is done according to the criteria of the group that I prefer and I do a point that it will reach up to 0,50, ok, for the work group, so if it is a 10, it will be done by 10, if it is done by 10, if it is done by 1, per 1. Quello che invece viene, se tu invece mi presenti un homework, cioè un'attività...

...per il professor Azzeni, che ho fatto per il professor Azzeni, se vuoi la sopravvisione a buona cosa. Sì, sì, se l'hai fatto per il professor Azzeni l'avrai... ...per il homework, sì, devo presentarlo un po'. Ecco, presentalo lì, però non presenti, cioè sennò facciamo una doppia presentazione, perché voi siete sempre gli stessi. ...per cui ho utilizzato quello che mi hanno dato. Bravissimo, sono contento e mi immagino che sarà valorizzato dal professor Azzeni. Sì, sì, allora devo ancora rispondere. Perfetto. E inoltre ho anche un'indagine che è quella di un caso di Pio Cicchettino, sono un po' scisa, no? E il discorso che... Paso? Pio Cicchettino, ragazze... Ah, Pio Cicchettino, ok, sì. ...e anche in quel caso il Vigile di Forenze ha fatto un... cioè ha portato un buon lavoro, perché attraverso tutti i scorsi di rilelemento delle notes, dei siti web, che dove c'è stato già, per esempio la prima di azione, penso diciamo di eliminare un discorso che magari il giovane, magari, non lo so, tu sono invece già con tutti i prima di data, cioè quindi, diciamo, giocare questo proprio oggi del digital friends, della geologia.

Sì, certo. Certo. Un aspetto più psicologico, perché tu puoi trovare dei comportamenti. Sì, sì, sono d'accordo. Io preferisco ancora la parte più tecnica, perché voi non avete, secondo me, degli elementi per, cioè, fare delle valutazioni, perché non siete laureati in psicologia, né in sociologia. In caso che va alla corte, il documento ufficiale, dove hai detto tutto. No, no, ma infatti ci sta. Quindi, comunque, ripeto, ottimo lavoro, innanzitutto complimenti. Per quanto riguarda gli homework, li puoi fare, fare degli approfondimenti che puoi dare a professore Azzene, o a me, ovviamente. Io sono più attirato dalla parte, oggi abbiamo fatto una parte anche tech, però a me interessa molto la parte legale e la metodologia di come si fa una digital forensics analysis, in modo che voi possiate averlo. Però, ripeto, oggi, per esempio, do quello che vi dicevo adesso, è io metterò questi elaborati dentro la sezione elaborati e voi potete andare a prendere e fare una contestazione. Quindi fare almeno una relazione, mi dite questa relazione tecnica non va bene per uno, due, tre. Quindi mi dovete fare una relazione tecnica che contesta la relazione fatta da un vostro studente. E io, se ovviamente la valuto in maniera corretta, e in questo caso gli homework, perché la differenza qual è tra homework e quello fatto in classe?

Quello fatto in classe è un laboratorio, ma soprattutto io accetto molto di più l'uso dell'AI. Invece, sull'homework mi piacerebbe nessun problema, tanto l'AI si usa, ma un po' più di pensiero, cioè nel senso un po' più di... Ecco, perché tanto lo human touch si vede anche. Cioè, basta, se no, chiaramente se tu sei pronto, ci rispondi, viene fuori. Puoi capire quanto è il livello di differenza. Però mi aspetterei un pochino più di pensiero. Perché l'ho fatto tutto, perché il Cosminelli di Kerch e questo ogni cosa, perché non ho analizzato tanto da un punto di vista mio, cioè più che... Ovviamente l'AI voglio magari per dirmi... Esattamente quello è il punto di vista, però il mio punto di vista su quella cosa deve essere quello. Devo dire io, perché... Bravissimo. Bravissimo, sì. In un'altra domanda... Va bene. In un'altra domanda, diciamo, queste cose per noi che viene tribunale, la difesa, forse solo gli avvocati le possono fare la difesa, ma qualcuno...

Eh sì, in America no, cioè esiste la difesa per sé, ma in Italia no, devi avere per favore un avvocato. Ma in che senso però? Non so, dico, io dico, io dico, io dico che è esperto, porto le mie basi per aiutare forse un avvocato che deve spiegare all'avvocato, cosa devi dire poi in cuore? No, sei tu che devi dire l'avvocato. È certo, lo devi dire tu. Cioè, tu non puoi difendere una persona, e per le leggi italiane. Cioè, in Italia nessuno si può difendere da solo, perché deve avere comunque un avvocato. Ma l'avvocato, ma si mancherebbe, il motivo per cui vi faccio parlare è proprio perché, cioè, quando siete in corte l'avvocato, se iniziasse a fare cose di questo tipo, non sarebbe minimamente chiaro. Però ho notato, questo è un po' il senso, che anche voi dovete un po' lavorare, cioè, dal punto di vista non voi, se uno che volesse diventare un digital forense, perché quando sei in aula, poi, devi essere chiaro, devi saper gestire bene l'aula, devi saper convincere un giudice delle tue motivazioni. Quindi hai tutte le competenze tecniche per farlo, però talvolta poi magari non sei chiaro, non sei incisivo, non sai spiegare bene cose.

Non va proprio, appunto lei ci dovrà smontare una tesi, ci dovrà smontarla poi, poi mi dovrà contestare proprio così. Sì, lo faremo. Sì, sì, facciamo, facciamo. Perfetto. Grazie. Ho avuto una domanda. Sì, se lo dobbiamo fare, magari, davanti a un caffè, così almeno tanto... Prego.

Volevo chiedere, la... diciamo, trovare eventuali problemi, critiche, obiezioni agli altri. Sì. Si fa a gruppi? Si fa in singolo? Bisogna farlo attualmente a tutti? Allora, diciamo, preferirei... Siccome questo è un homework, mi diventa un po' più difficile se lo fate a gruppi, cioè sarebbe meglio farlo a livello singolare, ok? Perché avevamo delle idee, quindi... Poi però, visto che avete fatto voi il gruppo, se lo fate insieme, ci può stare, capito? Però, cioè, non che... Perché se no... Se ci dici, se lo facciamo. Sì, poi... Ripeto, nel vostro caso, se siete in due e avete anche fatto il lavoro, per me non è un problema. È chiaro che se mi ritrovo un gruppo di otto persone su un homework che ha un valore diverso rispetto a un laboratorio, se avete seguito quello che ho spiegato la volta scorsa, mi crea un po' più di disagio. Sì. Avete sentito? C'è la differenza, no?

Cioè, è che l'homor che io tendo, ovviamente, in base a quello che è il vostro lavoro, a valorizzarlo, sempre. Mentre invece il laboratorio, quello che mi ritengo migliore, perché se no diventava, cioè, poi è anche complesso gestire tutti questi voti, eccetera, eccetera, perché anche poi con azioni, se non sbaglio, state facendo anche un coso. Quindi, mi trovo, cioè, secondo me, come nel caso di due persone, nel caso di un gruppo che, già mi ricordo perché avete lavorato insieme, se lo fate davvero insieme, per me va bene, ok? Se invece mi si trova un gruppo di otto persone, preferirei che fossero diversi, gli elaborati. E glielo mandiamo, cioè, la contestazione. La contestazione. E, io preferisco, eh? Nello stile di... Se adesso lo spiego un pochino meglio a tutti, eh no, comunque lo posso anticipare anche a voi adesso, se vi interessa, poi lo rispiego, perché non voglio avere, cioè, a me, quello che, quello che può succedere è consulenza tecnica fatta, da, appunto, lei, e voi, vi trovate il documento, come ti chiami?

Marta, vi trovate il documento di Marta e, e dovete contestarlo. Capita spessissimo, no? Perché comunque io mi trovo, ehm, sia in termini aziendali, quindi corporate, per esempio, ho fatto un'analisi forense del computer di un dipendente che avrebbe, ehm, ehm, sfiltrato dei dati per magari andare da un competitor con quei dati, che è un classico caso che mi capita spesso. Che è un competitor che ci ha portato, tu sei dentro. Sì, sì, infatti, l'abbiamo parlato. Ma a me capita spesso, quindi cosa succede? Che quel caso, cioè nel senso, voi fate, voi siete i consulenti dell'azienda e fate un'analisi. Poi questa, questa analisi, oppure, facciamo che lo fa Marta, il consulente è voi, siete invece i consulenti del, del dipendente, perché il dipendente poi si cercherà di difendere con le sue ragioni. E quindi voi dovreste fare una relazione tecnica, quindi il format è lo stesso, no? Che però ha un obiettivo diverso, dire dove la relazione fatta da Marta contiene degli errori, ok?

Però sempre anche con l'idea di presentarla a un pubblico, a un tecnico? Con l'idea di presentarla a un pubblico, a un tecnico, le cose non cambiano. Adesso magari lavoriamo ancora un po' sull'idea di come dovrebbe essere una relazione. Devo dire che, fortunatamente, non c'è una logica, cioè è anche fa parte, cosa che nasce anche, essendo una prestazione di opera intellettuale, è normale che sia così, anche nel nostro mestiere, cioè anche quello dell'avvocato, non è che c'è una regola per cui tu scrivi gli altri, c'è uno stile, un po' come dici, cioè sono stile Armani, Versace, no? Non è che sono molto esperto, però sono due stili diversi, e quindi tu dici, cioè preferisco quella cosa lì o l'altra, quindi anche il consulente deve avere un suo stile, però ci sono delle cose che all'interno del suo stile devono rimanere dei format che ci devono essere, capito? Il tema dello scope, della metodologia, dei constraint, un po' quello che avevo indicato in quella presentazione, e poi ci continuiamo a lavorare, però non so se ho risposto alla domanda, mi fermo perché volevo capire.

Era giusto anche per sapere se ci fosse una deadline e se poi dovessi caricare i file, così poi li vediamo, io adesso li sto caricando in questo momento, proprio mentre mi stavi, facendo stavo andando a caricare, che ne ricarico subito in elaborati, quindi voi li potete trovare. Mi sembra un po' incasinato però elaborati, cioè non c'è un sistema, perché voi come li fate poi a beccare sti cosi? Cioè mi sembra difficile, però... Eh... Ah, non li avete? Ah, no, io lo metterei nel materiale, allora. No, no, allora, perfetto. No, perché mi avete preso la sprovvista con questa cosa degli elaborati che non la conoscevo. Allora, invece voi lo mandate sotto elaborati, non lo potete mandare? Ah, vero me. Se poteste, se non è un problema... E avete mettato l'acqua a caldo, perché ho detto, com'è che elaborati? Perché di solito negli altri corsi... No, ma è negli altri corsi, ma infatti sono io che sbaglio, lo so, però mi viene da dire, non vorrei perdermelo, cioè almeno inditemi che l'avete caricato, perché se no...

Perché arriva un'email quando vi mettete un elaborato o no? No, no. No, secondo me, se non mi mandate l'email è tanto a non essere, come diciamo noi, eh? Ma adesso non mi ha collegato. Con l'allegato. Adesso questo non c'è problema, perché... Però per la prossima volta dice l'email. Sì, per la prossima volta, secondo me, sì. Cioè, se funziona così, secondo me, io sono più reattivo con l'email. Ma ci stiamo persi completamente sotto di un'email. No, ma lì non è colpa lì, cioè, sono io che non conoscevo lo strumento. Quindi, praticamente, elaborati è... Voi eravate falco, ok? Quindi questo lo vado a tirare via da qua, per sicurezza. Lo prendo. A posto. E se è solo questo, scusami ragazzi. Ok. Grazie.

C'è anche lo zucchero. No, no, io non prendo lo zucchero. Grazie. Grazie. Grazie. Grazie. Grazie. Grazie. Grazie. Grazie. Well, it's amazing. I'm just looking forward to it. I'm very excited, you're very excited. I'm really excited. I am excited. I'm excited to be here. Good morning. I will be here today. I will be here today. Be here. I will be here today. I'll be here today. See you later. Thank you.

Okay, first of all, I can explain a little bit better the homework, if you are interested, obviously, no obligation, you will have in the repository, so in my material, all the cases, if you don't want to publish your case, please tell me, and I will delete from the repository, but I think that you have presented the case, so I don't see any reason why you don't want to authorize me about this.

Then you can read all the other presentations, and you can make a new technical consultancy. There is no different form. Let me give you a couple of words about how is the technical consultancy. I also was explaining to your colleague during the break. The point is, there is no methodology that is a fixed methodology. So, as I was mentioning, Prada, Armani, Versace, any kind of stylist has a different style, so there is no, but everybody do the same things, a couple of trousers, a jacket, whatever. So, the idea is, it should be a technical consultancy, so it's important to the executive summary or the abstract, the scope, the constraint, the limitation, the methodology.

The glossary is not compulsory, but it's a strong suggestion. The use of image, please, the use of graph, the use of table, whatever, to simplify the technical issue. Also, the timeline, no problem, but even if you put in a graphic way the timeline, it's a good point. So, this is just a suggestion. So, again, it's a matter of style. So, if you want to do in a certain style, also, because it's also differences and your style could be a good style that I cannot give you because it's your style and could have a good impact. The goal is to convince someone, basically, when you make a technical consultancy, to convince about a thesis. So, you should have some classical elements, but then how do you put in the style if you are really synthetic or if you want to do a technical consultancy of 50 pages?

There are pros and cons in any decision that you are going to make. Again, I was explaining, if you make a long technical consultancy, you risk to be contested a little bit more because if you are synthetic, you don't give some elements. So, it's a matter of strategy. There is no fixed style, but it should have some elements. Some of you reach this element. Other of you don't reach this element. It's normal. It was the first time. And now, again, having said that, that is to clarify how it should be a technical consultancy. Again, I would like to tell you that you have to use the same style when you make a technical analysis to contest another technical analysis or technical consultancy. So, the style is the same, but obviously, the work that you are going to do is to contest the validity of that kind of technical consultancy.

This kind of activity happens a lot of time, mainly practical example you did with Professor Azzeni, an example that happens also to me. I also suggest this to Professor Azzeni. That is the classical example of an employee that finishes work in a company and gives back the laptop. And in the laptop, there are some evidence that he took some confidential information from the device to give to another competitor. So, in this situation, you probably have to defend the employee and then you have to contest the technical consultancy of the employer and the technical consultant of the employer that explain that the employee did this kind of activity and stole some confidential information from the laptop.

So, this is a classical example, a lot of time. So, you have to read the work of another colleague and you have to contest his work. So, this is the idea that you have to do and this is the homework. The last information, it's not possible to do the homework with a group of five, six persons, obviously, because it's an homework. So, you have to do alone. It could be possible to do with two persons maximum, but not a group of three, not a group of four, not a group of five, because it's an homework. So, basically, you have to do alone and you have to give me your repertoire. And the last issue is, now I have discovered the existence of Elaborati, but if you put in Elaborati, it's not a problem, but you have to send me an email because, anyway, I should be advised that there is a new work on Elaborati. Elaborati, if you put the attachment in the email, it could be also simpler, but as you prefer.

The importance is that I need to be advised. There is no timeline, so you can also send me this work in one month, so there is no timeline for the homework, so don't worry about that. It's advisable to do this kind of stuff in a couple of weeks, in my view, because now you will have, in the next week, you will have other possibility to do homework. So, if I have, if I receive in one month an homework that was assigned now, it could be not simple for me, but there is no timeline. So, if you want to do also at the end of the course, it's not a problem, but before the end of the course, obviously, this is the timeline. So, you cannot do after the end of the course. That is, when it finishes the course, at the end, at the beginning of June, we have to find as soon as possible, because also the next week is the first of May. The Friday is a big issue for me.

So, I have to take, but I already spoke with the professor at Sene. So, if you have any questions, please ask me about the homework, about, if not, I will go to the other laboratory. Okay. Okay. So, sorry for the Italian, but I will make the translation. Don't worry about that for the English speaking person. So, I want to start with this crime, not because it's, yeah, it could be also part of the exam, but not in the sense that you can, not in the sense to learn by heart, Article 615 quarter, because it's not the purpose. The purpose of today is to analyze one thing that is really important for you, that is the inconsistency between cyber security, and I would say also in a little part, digital forensics activity, with the legal stuff and the legal doctrine on cyber crime.

Why there is an inconsistency? Because there are a lot of activity, there are a lot of activity that you normally do for cyber security work that could constitute a crime. So, we can start with another one, that is most, the most crazy one, that is Article 617 Quinquus. So, the detection, diffusion, installation, not permitted of tool able to work up or destroy or interrupt communication, telematic or informatic communication, IT communication. Why this is a crazy article? Why this is crazy article? Because when you, how many of you know the tool Wireshark?

Okay. Wireshark is a tool able to work up or in going through some communication. But why use Wireshark? For? For what is it? For say? Yes, for security, troubleshooting, for security, for troubleshooting reason. So basically, the point is, a lot of crime that is present in the criminal code in Italy, but not only in Italy, also in other jurisdictions. So, it's not, I use Italian because it's just to make an example and most of you are Italian, but we can use also the French panel code or the UK criminal code. Even in UK, there is a case law, so the system is different. The point is, there are a lot of crime where the distinction between an activity and security activity, when you make a penetration test and you can read this article, illegal access to an IT system.

However, go in an IT system protected by security measure. What is the word for the Italian speaking person now that gives you the possibility to say that when you make a penetration test, you are not committing a crime? Read this article. What is the word? The magic word that gives you the possibility to avoid. Okay. Abusivamente. Then again, but if you want to do a bug mounting activity, if you want to do an ethical hacking activity, is it a crime or not? Why? Sorry? Why? If you make ethical hacking? Yes, but if you correct me if I'm wrong, a classical ethical hacking activity is to go in through my website and see if there is any problem of security.

And then you, to do this kind of activity, you have to enter in my cloud or whatever, website or whatever. So, in that moment, then you do this activity not because you want to hack or crack, but you want to do illegal activity, but just to advise me that I'm not secure. So, in the specific moment that you enter, you have the authorization to do that or not, if you enter in my website, you have the authorization or not. So, for me, in that moment is a crime. And there was a long case law that demonstrated that there was a long discussion and one judge decided against an ethical hacker. And then, in the appeal, we obtain the result to demonstrate the innocence without other elements.

That is the mens rea. What is mens rea? It's the Latin mens rea, just to be clear. That is the subjective element. The subjective element is the willingness to commit a crime. Okay? Willingness to commit a crime. But, when you do bug bounty, when you ask me, because what is the sequence? You enter in my website, you see that there is a bug, and then you tell me, okay, I discovered a bug, please give me some money, if you want. Correct, if you want. In that, when you ask me, give me some money, you have an advantage. So, how can we evaluate the advantage in a way to the willingness to commit a crime, when you ask me the money?

Also, because it seems, from my perspective, that there is also a little bit of threat, because you have demonstrated that I have a lack of security. You have demonstrated that I probably have to make what is the consequences when you make an ethical hacking. From my perspective, if I am a company, from a GDPR perspective, if you have done the other course of cybersecurity, what is the consequences? No, no, you have to report, absolutely you have to report to the data protection authority, because a person that is not known, a third person, had an access to some, obviously. If it's just a vulnerability, and you did not have the access to the repository, to the personal data, there is no data breach.

But if there is a vulnerability, and you see the personal data, you have to make a notice to the data protection authority. Then you have to evaluate the risk, if you remember the risk assessment, but there is a lot of procedure that you have to start. But also, if you are subject to NIST 2, you have to report to the ACN, to the cybersecurity authority, because you have to do that. Or if you are DORA compliant, you have to do that kind of other report. So there are a lot of consequences when a wonderful ethical hacker discovers a bug on your website, or whatever. So the point is, when you do this activity, yes, and in the moment that you do this activity for an economic, even if it is not compulsory, because normally they don't tell you, because they don't make like a threat, they don't make like a ransom.

Because if it is a ransom, there are obviously a cyber criminal. Ransom, it means that if they ask you, if you don't give me three Bitcoin, I will publish this information on the website. This is obviously, if it's clear for you that this is a crime, there is no doubt about this. But when you do this activity, and you say, if you want to give me some money for my research, in that moment, the line between what is legal and what is illegal, it's really tiny. It's really difficult to say. And I have, I had obtained a victory, but it was really hard because the judge, in the first instance, decided to convict and to put guilty the person to do this kind of activity. So this is just to explain how is not consistent, the activity, a normal, and I would say also ethical cyber security activity with the existence law.

Okay. And this is just another example. Another example, but I was coming back to the, because the article 615 is again detention, diffusion, installation, not consented, offer, tool, code, or other, sorry, or other means that are able to give the access to IT. So what is, what is, what is this crime? The fact that you have, you're able to give, produce tool, part of tool, but also password. So just to give you an example, why it could be really risky to share a password.

Because I give you, I, I, I, I'm, I'm, I'm, we work in the same company and I needed to have an access and you give me the password. Okay. Uh, and say, okay, I, um, um, please give me the password. Then we decide that then we had a fight. We have any kind of problem and say, I never gave you the password and you have blog with the password of another person. And then I can start a criminal trial. And then I can start a criminal trial. This happened, really happened against the person. And they had to defend the person that says, but you gave me the password. So, so you, you, but if you don't have the, the proof, the evidence that the password was, was given, has been given. This is a trouble. I know that for you, this is something crazy because basically you are cyber security experts. So I think, and I hope that you don't share the password with your friend, but in an, in a, in another world, the normal world, there is a lot of person that share every day.

Also in 2026 password, because it's easy because some tools, but in any kind of tools, no, there is no difference between the tools. It can be a stupid tools or your, uh, three, six, five access. So a lot of information, a lot of, uh, so there is no differences just to give you the idea again of what is, I would say not consistent. This kind of crime with the reality, because it happens a lot of time that you can share a password. What it means if I share a wifi password? It's the same because there is no written wifi. It's not, uh, there is a difference between wifi and the access of 365. So then it's the judge that has to evaluate. If I share a wifi password, I cannot be criminalized for that. Yes. Good defense.

Yes, yes, yes, absolutely. A good defense. I never had this case in my life because there is a, sometimes there is a logic. So it's because it's, it's, it's a wifi password. So it's, uh, just to give an access to, to the web, to the internet. So basically it's not, uh, it's not the point, but it's just was to make an example that when there is no written in the, in the criminal code, what kind of password we are discussing is just to say passcode. So any kind of passcode theoretically could constitute a crime. That is with the, with the, with the, uh, detention of two years. So not, uh, not. Now, why I want to start with this kind of crime that I would say three years ago, four years ago, five years ago was not, um, so relevant. I want to start to be relevant. There is a lot of case about this for two reasons. First of all, first of all, corporate reason.

So there is a lot of crime committed by employee because the company start to defend herself about any kind of illegal activity committed by the employee. I would say that 80% of the time, the employee are not aware about the risk and they don't have the idea that they're going to commit the crime. For example, when they share the password, but most of the case, it's, uh, as a professor said, is when there is a confidential information or a strategic or secret, a trade secret that are taken, uh, by a company to another company. That this is the most important, uh, issue that could happen because it's really easy to have a digital information and to share with other person immediately without any. And there is no, the perception by this kind of person that this do this kind of activity, that there is a criminal consequences. Basically, if you ask to a person that start to share this information, their idea is, yes, it's a not illegal activity, but as a civil consequences, not criminal consequences.

This is not correct. It has a criminal consequences. And this is the first reason why we are discussing more about this kind of crime. But the second reason is the fact that now there is a lot, a lot of cyber attack. And not only cyber attack, uh, we could say made by cyber, the normal cyber crime, but now there is also the serious risk about cyber warfare and a lot of cyber attack that could have military consequences. So basically the, the, the, the, the attention of the, um, public prosecutor, general attorney, law enforcement, even if they don't have the competence, unfortunately, but the, it's more related to this kind of crimes. And now coming back to the point, this was the introduction, coming back to the point of the article 615 quarter, because the point is not to the case of the sharing of the wifi code.

Yes. Or, uh, or, uh, or, or, or the password, uh, uh, off, uh, a tool, uh, uh, on a classical password of AI tool that you want to share, because you want to use the, the gamma, uh, app, uh, off your colleague. The point is, when we're discussing about some company that work to produce malware, how can we define from a legal standpoint hacking team? Do you remember hacking team? Do you know what is hacking team? I will go back to explain what is hacking team in a second. But what is the activities is legal or not the activity of a company that have a scope to find malware, find zero day to produce a remote access forensic activity.

Because there is a lot of company. Now I have to probably assist one, and I'm not sure that I want to do that. But in a certain sense, someone has to do that, produce, that make research. So the researchers are like you, are students, and now are a little bit more than students, are professors. And their goal is to find malware and produce malware, basically, also find and produce malware, to sell to other companies that produce a tool to have access to a mobile device. So in the moment that you do this kind of activity, are you committing a crime or not, in your view? So you are behaving, which is your behavior, depending on the situation.

So you are creating a malware, and okay, you are saying to me, okay, I found this bug, this is zero day to vulnerability, and I have the logs, and I have the logs, and the logs says nothing, that you did not exploit nothing in my system, okay? Okay, depends on this, my view. Yes, then what is your opinion? I think that it is finally regulating, so have a trace of what the malware is produced when, where, I think it should be legal, otherwise, absolutely not. Yeah, okay, but the point is, this is your opinion, and from your, and I, I agree with your opinion, but we have to see if your opinion is consistent of what is the law, and what is the law prescribed, because you are, you are, you have the article 615 quarter, but you have also the, this one, detention, sorry, detention, diffusion, installation, not consented of tool or program that are able to, destroy or interrupt an IT system.

So, this is another crime that is, and then you have also the danneggiamento informatico, that is the damage to an IT system. So, you have a lot of crime, where it's not defined, the idea of a chain of custody, custody, or the, the, the, the, the use and the, the, the, the, the idea is, if you produce this with the willingness to commit the crime, and the question, from a legal standpoint is, what is the willingness to commit a crime? Normally, the willingness of, of committed crime is when I, I, I have the knowledge that I want to commit a crime. For example, what is the, when you, when you are discussing about the homicide, that is the most important crime, the voluntary homicide, you can discuss between a premeditato, that is what you have taught before, or the preter intentionale, that you don't have intention to do that. So, I start to fight with you, and unfortunately, I, I, I give you, and then you, you, you, you fall, and then you die.

So, this is a classical example of preter intentionale, without intention. So, this is just to make an example of the idea of the intention. But when you are going to produce a malware, you are knowing, you really know the intention to produce a malware. So, we have to make a step further, we have to analyze, what is the goal to produce the malware? Yes, to make money, because you are a company that produces malware. So, what could be, again, start coming back to the other example that I made about the ethical hacker. You have, the, the intention is not to make pure research, for example. You, you, you obtain money, you obtain money. And then, another goal, who is the person that uses the malware? Have you traced, in a clear way, the person that uses the malware? Are you able to know exactly who will use the malware that you have sold to someone?

Because the malware can be used by a law enforcement to make a legal activity, but could be, could also be made by, could also be used by another person. So, I don't have the answer. I don't have the answer because there is a lot of doubt about this, this, this law. So, and now we will discuss a case that is related to this. The only issue that I can anticipate now is what I hope that we will do in the next future, because it's really urgent to do this kind of activity, because there is a lack of regulation. So, if you start to work on this kind of field, I cannot assure you from a legal standpoint that you cannot risk anything, because there is the possibility, theoretically, even if you do your work in a really good way, that the prosecutors start a criminal proceeding against you.

Even if you want to do this activity, not for giving this malware to a cyber criminal, but you want to do this activity, yes, to obtain money, but to work with the law enforcement and with the authority, with the public authority. My suggestion, the urgency that we need is to treat this kind of tool as we treat all the army that we have in the world. Because in Italy, for example, there is a law that regulates any kind of arm that was created in 1975, so not yesterday, but 50 years ago, that creates a strong regulation for any kind of military products. So, if you produce a gun, you have to respect some specific rule, and you need to have a clear chain of custody.

So, if you go in a Beretta, probably you know that kind of company, you will have a lot of regulation, all the internal regulation, ministerial decree, there is a lot of law that explains clearly how many guns you can produce, how can you produce this gun. Well, I'm not expert about this field, I'm expert about others, but there is a lot of regulation, so there is a lot of stuff that explains very well how you can produce any kind of army, not only a gun, whatever army you want to produce, there is a regulation. In the malware field, there is no regulation at all, there is just this open crime that are subjected to the interpretation of the judge, and we very well know that the judge are not competent about this field. Nobody of the judge knows what is a bug bounty, I can tell you for sure, you have to find me a judge that knows this kind of practice.

And so, just the idea to explain what is that kind of practice takes a lot of time and takes a lot of risk, because if this person does not understand what they are going to say, he will convict you. So, that's why it's important to be clear, because the problem is the incommunicability between this stupid law, I would say, and what happens in reality. And if you think, I don't have anything to fear, because I'm a good person, I don't want to do anything bad, if you think just like this, in this field, you think in a bad way. In other situations, you probably, in the physical world, you can make some reasoning that it says, we say in Italian, male non fare, paura non avere. So, if you don't do bad things, if you don't do bad things, you don't have, you don't need to have fear. So, this is the translation. So, basically, but in this field, please, you don't have to consider this rule, because one thing is, you never know what happened after your work.

So, your work could be a weapon, and the weapon cannot be in your control, but there is the possibility to say that the weapon was sold by you. And because there is no regulation about this, nobody has the time to do this regulation. And I try to insist that this is a really important field, because now there is a lot of opportunity also, I would say. I don't like, anyway, this field, because it's a really tricky field, the idea to produce malware. But it's an important economic activity that you can do, because you can obtain a lot of money. It's like a weapon company that makes a lot of money, Leonardo, Beretta, whatever. So, now you can start your startup. Please, no, but if you want to do that, okay, you are able to do, and you can obtain a lot of money by doing this. So, we need to regulate this, because it's in your right to do this kind of activity, in my view.

It's your right, but not ethic, I'm not discussing about ethical issue, but it's, from a legal standpoint, it's your right. But now, it's a mess to do this. Okay, so I think that we can start with the Hacking Team case. Okay, Hacking Team case was an Italian technology company known for selling offencing, intrusion, and surveillance services to government and law enforcement worldwide.

It was founded in 2003, and it had a lot of criticism. Why it has a lot of criticism, because the problem is that, yes, you can see in this slide that the key clients work with NSA, CIA, FBI, and various international law enforcement agencies. But a lot of reports made by non-governmental agencies or other associations of ethical hackers demonstrated that this kind of activity that was created in Milan in 2003, not so far from my house. So, this, for me, was really crazy, not only sell this kind of malware to the public authority or to the official authority.

And this was what we read from 2008, 2009, since 2015. But there was, basically, basically, the scope and the general scope was to provide offensive hacking and surveillance software to governments and agencies. What is the core technology? It's really easy to understand its remote control system, software for monitoring internet communication and decrypting files, mobile surveillance, so tools for tracking cell phone, call and messages, and remote activation, so capability to remotely activate microphone and cameras on target device and location tracking. So, basically, these are the core technology. You have to consider that they start in 2003, and then they obtain good results from 2007 up to 2015.

And in that period of time, and this is important to say, there was no any kind of legislation. If you remember, I explained to you that this kind of remote control is able, and this is a question of exam, to be activated just to open the mic and the camera. So, now we have the legal piece of law that explains that we cannot know what happened. This is the fear that we have now. But from a legal standpoint, a law enforcement officer can have this tool, but can only use it to open my mic and my webcam. That is one thing, not to see what is inside of my mobile phone or my laptop. But from 2003 up to 2015, I would say, because the law at the very end was 2019.

So, for a lot of period of time, but from 2015, it started to be a problem from a case law and jurisprudence perspective. So, I would say 2015, there was no any kind of law. There was no any kind of case law. Furthermore, there was a case law that approved this kind of system. So, there was a lot of case where they enter in the laptop of the investigated person and they can do whatever they want without advising him. So, there was a lot of malware, but not because Alberto Stasi saw pornographic content, but malware made by John Doe may go to the pornographic content, but because they want to see what happened. And why we start to be crazy as an attorney, I explained this, but I want to repeat. Because when you do this kind of activity that for me is a digital search and seizure, remember search and seizure is perquisizione sequestro, you should be advised.

So, if I go too much on your private life, I have the right to do that. But I also, if I am the law enforcement, but if I am the investigated person, in my view, I have the right to be advised. So, if you enter in my laptop, you can do that, but, and you can also do remotely. For me, it's not a problem, but I should be advised. I should be, I need to be, I need to be, I need to have the possibility to appoint an attorney, to defend myself. It's a fundamental right. You cannot enter in a laptop or in a device of a person without giving to this person some defense right. Because this is democratic system example. It's important to give this right. But this does not happen until 2015. Because they consider this not a search and seizure, not a perquisizione sequestro.

But they consider this a wiretapping and a communication wiretapping. But there is a huge difference between the fact that I make an interception wiretapping of a conversation made by phone, by also a WhatsApp chat. Also this, for me, there is an incredible difference. Because if I wiretapping a conversation, I wiretapping a conversation in that moment, in that specific moment, if I wiretapping WhatsApp, I can go through three years of conversation. I can build a story of a relation between two persons. There is a huge difference. For me, this is correspondence. WhatsApp is not communication. It's correspondence. You understand what is the difference? One thing is to say, we can have a coffee at the Mixto. Yes, this is a communication. But if you go to my chat, you don't only read the fact that we have a coffee together.

But you can read also that three years ago, we had a relation. And this is not present in the communication made by phone. You could say to me that you can have all the communication made by phone. No, because wiretapping is just maximum for the Italian system for 90 days. 90 days, not 90. But 90 days is not a WhatsApp conversation. Because in a WhatsApp chat history, probably you don't make the backup or whatever. You destroy any kind of conversation. There is a lot of strategy. But this is, we could say, the anti-forensics issue. But normally, a person keeps this conversation because they are useful, the WhatsApp conversation or what kind of instant messaging conversation. So basically, it's not a communication. For me, it's a correspondence. We have to consider WhatsApp at the same level of email, in my view. So this is the huge difference.

But at the time, and also now, when we consider WhatsApp, the idea is, no, it's not search and seizure. It's not search and seizure. It's a communication. No, for me, no. There is an incredible difference. Also, because the amount of data that are present in my laptop or in your laptop can give me the possibility to, especially now with AI, but also in the last, without AI, to construct a profile of the person with all the elements, all the elements, all the preferences, all the problem, all the password, and whatever. So this was why there was a lot of growth in Tim and this Vincent Setti, that we will know something about him soon. So what are the advanced surveillance techniques? There was a battery optimization, because when you do this kind of activity, the risk is that you consume a lot of battery.

So there was a technique to avoid suspicious battery drain. There was a stealth operation method to make surveillance difficult to detect. And sophisticated tools for extracting and analyzing target information. So data extraction, that was exactly what now is not possible. But the tool also now gives the possibility to make data extraction. So you can use the tool just to open the mic and the webcam now, not in 2010 or 2012, but you can have the possibility to extract data. So what happened to David Vincent Setti and Valeriano Bedeski, but the real man was David Vincent Setti, that in 2007 received 8 million found from Italian venture capital firms. And then he had a lot of early success because the software was purchased by Milan Police and a lot of other subjects.

It was also used to use to monitor and track potential terrorist activities, to control drug traffic, to employ an international effort to combat narcotics trade and then to gather intelligence on mafia and other criminal organizations. So this was the technology in which Akin team was used, not only Akin team, Akin team was one of the most important players at a certain time in the world. So there was a lot of high level connection between Buzal and Hamilton, U.S. intelligence and a lot of other agencies. There was in 2013, Saudi Arabia's attempt of acquisition, and this was the first time where all the elements that was made by the other, the association, the ethical association and other expert report that was made against Akin team that always say that there was a lot of tricky issue that Akin team are going to address.

To make, when there was this attempt of acquisition, there was a lot of doubt about Akin team because a negotiation began with the Saudi Arabian government and the valuation of the company that was created just 10 years before was 2 billion. And 2 billion. That was, they take a finance of 8 million, we could say 7 years before, and then in 7 years, 2 billion of valuation. And Saudi offered 140 million, that is a lot of money, especially in 2013. Then there was a mediator that was Wolfie Saeed and other information that are not really relevant. But it started to, again, start to think that there was some controversial kinds. One was exactly Saudi Arabia, and then Sudan, and then Bahrain. But this was just the top of the problem because then the real issue was completely different.

And there was, in 2014, starting a UN investigation about software sales to Sudan. And then, in January 2015, Akin team said that denied the current sale to Sudan. Why it was tricky, the idea to sell this software to Sudan? Because Sudan, we could say that is not a democratic place, especially in 2014, especially in 2014 and 15, because they commit a lot of crime against humanity. Because there was a civil war inside, and there was a lot of military activity. And this kind of tool was used by the military government to discover and find potential persons that want to fight for freedom, and not because they are going to commit crime. So they are used to detect this person and to kill this person. There was this investigation made by the UN.

And in March 2015, UN insisted the software could be classified as a military equipment. 2015, to understand that it is obviously a military equipment. Also, the Italian government started to figure out, but again, we are discussing about 2014. So imagine how much of activity was made between 2003 up to 2014. 2015, to froze Akin team export of the tool. That was one of the things that you have to do immediately. Because if you are interested about this kind of activity, and again, this activity should be done in a certain sense, because we need a weapon. Because if you want to fight cyber crime, if you want to fight cyber warfare, you need legal malware. But if you need legal malware, again, and you have this potential trouble, in my view, it's important to limit the export of this kind of tool.

When you say chain of custody, one of the regulations that, in my view, it's important is you want to produce malware, you need to produce any state, you need to produce its malware, but you cannot give to a company the possibility to export this kind of activity. Because if you start to give to the possibility to export, and the purpose, again, to the goal of this activity is to make money, because it's not a public company, but it's a private company, it's normal that then you want to make more money. So if Sudan gives you more money to obtain this, you are interested to sell this kind of products to Sudan. For example, in the weapon regulation, that is really, really tricky stuff, but at least we have rules that you cannot sell armed weapons to some country.

So there is a white list and there is a black list. Then if it is respected or not, it's another question, especially by Italian company, but theoretically, there is a black list in the malware sector. There is no black list. There is no regulation that give you the obligation to have a black list. Then at the time, immediately, the Italian government froze the Hacking Team export. But if you froze an activity without a law, it happens that is not legal, because you need a law to froze, because you cannot limit the competition and the competitivity of a company, because it's another constitutional right. So you need a law that gives you the possibility to ban a certain activity. And in a certain sense, it's not correct to block all the export, because the good idea is to create a law that creates a strong black list.

So say, OK, you can sell just to some country that are friend of us, for example, there was a lot of lobbying effort, obviously, to overturn the ban. And then the ban lifted because they obtained this result with the attorney of Hacking Team. So what are the ethical concerns, basically, human rights, privacy violation, and democratic concern? It's really clear what are these kind of consequences. Then there was the UN sanction, the Italian export law, and there was some privacy laws with the start again, Hacking Team. What happened? What happened? What happened? That in 2015, everything broke because there was this incredible leak or data breach against Hacking Team.

You can also see now, if you want, there is a wiki page about Hacking Team. I think that it is called Hacking Wiki or something like that. Hacking Team wiki page. You have to Google it. And you can also now, if you want to go to that kind of repository, you can also see now, I think, the 200, 400 gigabytes of email and documents that was hacked to Hacking Team. So this was a crazy story because David Vincenzetti, that was, if you remember, the owner of Hacking Team, was a really, I would say, important person in this kind of sector, obviously. And a well-recognized person, and he had a lot of relations with a lot of the chief of FBI, the chief of CIA. So it was a really important person. And when there was, when this hack happened, it's, have you checked if it's already online, the repository?

No, just to, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's online. WikiLeaks, yes, sorry. WikiLeaks, yes, sorry. A lot of stories came, came, came up. For example, they're so crazy, these Italian guy, guys, that they, the, the, the story, the, the most story crazy, the story most crazy is that they sold RCS, RCS, RCS, the software, to the North Korea and South Korea. So, what happens with the leak? Now, because it was business, so they say, why? And so, the problem is that there was the email of the South Korean spy and the North Korean spy. And when they have access to this, this leak, what happened in about seven days, that the two spies died immediately. So, they, because what happened, that they discovered these two persons.

So, the consequences of data breach, there was a, there is a wonderful book of Carola Frediani. If you want to discover this, it's incredible. And I, I suggest it's really a short book. It's 80 pages. You can also download it. Carola Frediani, it's, she's a journalist. That more than 20 persons in one month die just because of the leak. So, again, sorry if I want to insist and I want, I don't want to provoke you. But then, when you make an ethical hacking, you need also to consider the consequences of this ethical hacking. Because it's obvious that this hacking was made for ethical purposes. But the, the incredible issue that made by this crazy, completely crazy guy, completely crazy guy, David Vincenzetti, was that a lot of persons died. For example, he sold this software to the DEA, that is the drug, anti-drug department of United States.

But they also sold the same software with the drug trafficker in Mexico. So, they had the, the relation with this important narcotraffic person, and then they sell the same software. So, and they also sold to the drug trafficker the, the way to discover the, the, the, the tool made by the FBI, CIA, and, and the EA. So, basically, you can imagine that also the United States was a little bit upset about this activity made by the wonderful David Vincenzetti. And if you want to, probably you don't know, you don't remember the case of Regeni case, you know, obviously they sold also the software to Egypt. So, they, they, there was a strong connection between hacking team and Regeni case. So, if you go through this 200, 400 gigabyte of Wikileaks information, if you have the time, and in this case, you need a lot of time, I can assure to you, it's better to read the book of Carol Atherdiani.

You will also discover all this kind of crazy activity made by this guy. So, what is the, and the conclusion of this story, that the fact that if you don't put regulation, and if you don't consider, and if you don't want to understand the risk of this activity, you can create, you can create disaster, disaster. Because also now, also now, my client was involved by a really stupid remote forensics malware that was made by the General Attorney of Cosenza, that is a city in Calabria, that was made in a really stupid way, immediately recognized by my client and by me, and by Paolo Dalqueco that you have known. And then, again, they tried to use this tool, but it's really, really important to have a clear regulation of this tool. Now, what is the, what happened with this leak?

Client, corporate client, and also the revenue that made over 40 million, but probably also more than 40 million. Then, what, what was the strategy made by Vincenzetti? The strategy of Vincenzetti was to say, if I were Vincenzetti, I say, okay, I have some million, I go to a little island, if it's possible, without any jurisdiction, and I hope that nobody will kill me in the next 10 minutes. But I'm not Vincenzetti, so the strategy of Vincenzetti was to start a criminal action to the hacker, that was to make this investigation against the hacker. And the second issue is to start a criminal investigation about some employee that, in a certain sense, was connected, and probably they sold this software to Saudi Arabia.

That makes no sense, because the WikiLeaks page, you can discover that David Vincenzetti sold this software around the world. But, again, there was a mismatch between what the prosecutor, the Italian prosecutor, has as an evidence. I would say also some political pressure, probably, but this is just my opinion. And then, the not competence of what was a disaster, what happened, because it was a real disaster worldwide, this activity. Also, from a reputation proposed, because we did not have a good reputation in all the world, because we leave an Italian company to create this monster without any kind of control by the authority, the Italian authority, the secret service, the Italian secret service, and all this stuff.

Yes, they start to think something about in 2014 with the embargo, but it was too late, I would say, too late, because there was a lot of other, there was the UN that was connected, and then there was a lot of ethical hackers that want to give to the world this kind of story. And that's why they start with the attack and the WikiLeaks page. But, we have to discuss about the Milan prosecutor investigation, because the trigger was suspicion payment from a Saudi company to Softac SRL. Softac SRL is a name of fantasy, but this story is true. So, basically, what happened, that now, the case that you will discuss, and we will discuss the next, obviously, Friday, during the laboratory, and this will be your work, is the fact that, even if, probably, what is normal for you is the investigation against a Kim team, there is no any kind of investigation against a Kim team. A Kim team has never been indicted. Why David Vincenzetti is going to jail? Because he used, you can find the news on the web, but because I don't want to make confusion, because he used a sword, to try to kill, I don't think that his cousin or something like that. So, you can read this, because he had a collection of swords in his house, and he had trouble with his cousin.

And then, and then, and then, and then I would say, I was, because I was the lawyer of one of the employees that was accused by Vincenzetti, I start to explain to the prosecutor that, for me, Vincenzetti is quite crazy guy, yes? The wife of the wife of the cousin, the wife of the cousin, the wife of the cousin, which never denounced, I made the same, I would make the same, I would make the same, I probably, if I was the, if I were the attorney of the wife, I would make the same suggestion. So, basically, he tried to kill, but with a sword, with a sword, correct? Because, with a sword, I think he would kill, or with a sword, I don't know what he would say. Yes, yes, totally, much more regularity.

So, basically, just to consider the profile of the person, obviously, this is not the important issue, but again, the point is, he started this investigation, and the trigger was a suspicion payment made by this company, and take the attention, because it's important. This software hack company was the company that was created by the former employee of hacking team. So, the idea was, what started to think Vincenzetti? Vincenzetti started to think, not, I have a lot of trouble, but they stolen my tool, my RCS, and they created the company to sell my tool. To other, not regulated state, like Saudi Arabia.

So, this is the theory of Mr. Vincenzetti. And, prosecutor, the Italian prosecutor, started search and seizure on Turin-based company, because this is the truth, this was a company made in Turin. And, the suspicion was possible sales of Galileo's spyware search code to unauthorized parties. So, the crazy issue, but again, remember that one of the best defense is always the attack. Always. If you are really in trouble, the only issue that you can do is to attack. Perhaps without a sword, but this is another. So, the idea at the beginning of Vincenzetti is to start to make an attack against this poor former employee that went away from the company, because they understood how crazy the situation was, how completely under control of the situation.

What we have to do in this, the next Friday, because now it's too late, we cannot also start. If you have any question, I'm here. If not, we can finish a little bit before. Therefore, we have to build a technical consultancy that demonstrates, again, the possibility to defend the company, and on the other side, also to be on the part of Vincenzetti, if you want, because perhaps it could be simpler, and to demonstrate that they sell and they steal this software. Basically, all this story finishes with an exercise that you have also done with Professor Razzini, that is, because the story is, in certain sense, for me, is amazing, in my view, but it's just my opinion. But the final goal for you is to demonstrate the trade secret possibility to a company, so the steal of trade secret, because this is, we're discussing about this, you understand what I mean?

So this, but I would also put in this laboratory that we will do next Friday, another stuff. The idea to discuss about the article 615 quarter, the idea to discuss about the fact that the possibility to do this activity is legal or not legal. So I would like also to put you a little bit also on a legal side. So the laboratory works on two sides. From one side, similar to the other exercise, you have to do a technical consultancy that demonstrates the elements against soft-heck SRL, or in favor of soft-heck SRL, and on the other side, I would like also to make two positions, and I will be the judge, between the possibility to make an investigation against the 615 quarter or not. So what are the elements for you that give you the possibility to defend the position of a cybersecurity expert that creates malware or to accuse him?

So these are the two other goals that we have. So, yes, yes, you can create my evidence as the same as the previous lab, so you can create by yourself. But I prefer to give you the possibility to, you don't have to do any kind of homework, but if you want to think about it, you have the time. So the next Friday, you will be a little bit less stressed, because I saw that you did not have so much time to do this work. So I prefer to start with your work next Friday. I will assist, and then we present in the same day, but with the right time. So if you want to have any, if you have also any questions during this week, you can write me, please. No, cazzo, è vero, prima maggio, 8 maggio. Ok. Yes. Yes. Hello, guys.

