I would say, let's wait a few more minutes. I wanted to make the coffee first, but I didn't manage it. The machine broke down.

But it will be a nice challenge. I think we can start. Can you hear me? Do you need the microphone? If you have a problem, it's okay if you don't want to stand in front of the class.

But if you have a problem hearing me, please come here, because we are not so many people. I don't think the microphone is necessary. You can come a little closer to me.

Okay, we can start with the setup of my lecture. You start with Andrea Zeni on Monday, right? Okay. I just want to see, I don't want to be harsh, but just out of respect, I will evaluate whether I can continue recording the class based on the attendance of the students.

If the proportion of students is absolutely not enough, it's not a good idea, when it comes to your attention for the exam, to listen, perhaps at a different speed. I think it's about respect and about your preparation. I understand that there are many lecture hours, many courses, and it's a bit hard, but I can assure you that in the next three months I set my alarms in my room at 4:30 in the morning.

That's also hard. I think it's not only hard for you, but for everyone. The point is, when I'm here, or virtually, it's because I think you can hear me, and you get an advantage from my lesson.

Also, because we start with 15 hours of general theory, and then we have 25 hours of laboratory. If you are not here in the laboratory, you cannot do the laboratory, then it will be a big problem. You will probably get Andrea Azzeni, and you have to call him for all exam questions, because it's important not to have different viewpoints.

So if you have any doubt about the content, you can ask me whatever you want. I am completely available for you. But if you ask about the exam, please only call him, because I might say a few words of Andrea Azzeni a little differently, and then we have a problem.

The person for the exam is Professor Azzeni, not Professor Vacciago. We could say, how the exam works. If you need any other information about the value of the exam, you can ask me.

But what is important is the fact that we have to work together. You have to imagine that I have many problems being here, but it is a challenge for me, because I normally teach at a completely different university, at the University of Florence, and the approach is completely different. For example, at the University of Florence, nobody can argue about the evaluation of the exam.

Nobody. So just to make sure that there is the possibility to argue in the exam. My university, my PhD, my whole career, I never had the possibility to ask anyone whether the evaluation of the exam was correct or not.

You have to trust the evaluation of the professor. I'll tell you a story to explain how it works, in another world, but I am not in my world, so I will respect the rules of this world, to tell you that it's not only Polytechnic of Turin, there is another world beside it, that works in a different way. Then I leave it to you whether it's correct or not, because I want to start with a story that is quite strange.

I was a student like you. I finished the exam and it was a really difficult exam. It was Civil Law, which is the most difficult exam we had at that university, and after the exam, my result was 28, which was a pretty good result for that kind of exam.

Then I went to the professor and asked him a stupid question, which I then discovered, because I said, Professor, I study with my colleague and I think that my colleague, who got 24, has a preparation that is completely different from mine, because it was absolutely better. I'm asking you if you would like to re-evaluate him, in a way to review the exam, because he was really sad. I want to help my friend.

The result was, the professor said, thank you, but you are not 28, you are 24. If you speak again, you are 22. Then he changed my result and my result went from 28 to 24.

That is correct. No, that is not correct, what happened. But just to explain, that in my view you cannot judge the preparation of a professor, because in the life that you have after this world, you cannot judge the preparation of a professor, of a person who takes care of you.

It doesn't work like that, guys, please. That is my experience. But I don't want to say that I am completely available, as you probably also know from the other course Cybersecurity and Law. I will respect the rules.

But please, please, please guys, be aware that in your life you cannot judge the preparation of a person. Right or wrong. That is life.

Please. I want to change the result of my team. On the last day my team won.

Okay, I take a pen and then I can change the result of my team. No. Because in life you can win and lose.

You have to accept the fact that maybe the professor made a mistake. Of course, if the mistake is absolutely obvious, okay, fine, it's a problem, so you can argue. But on one hand it's a mistake, on the other hand it's an evaluation.

An evaluation is completely different from a mistake. On one hand it's a mistake and on the other hand it's an evaluation. What makes me crazy, but not because I am angry with you.

I respect your point and then I also explain why I am here. But what makes me crazy is that you cannot judge an evaluation, because you are not a professor. That is an important thing that you have to learn.

And that is also the reason why I think and hope that you will be in these classes because I have learned a few lessons from you. The first lesson I learned, and this is a wonderful lesson I learned from you, is that at my university, at my humanistic university, the idea was to listen to the professor, for one hour. And that is not a good idea, I think, in the end.

I think it is better to hear you and your activity, your practical exercises, to live with you a little bit. That is a different view, because at my university the idea was this kind of lessons. And that is why I think that the laboratory is important, because the laboratory is a way to live with you.

That is my theme. What we will do in the next 25 hours, after 15 hours of theory, is that you have a trial. A trial means that you have the opportunity to come into my world and to see what it is like to become a lawyer, a prosecutor, a jurist, because it is important to also understand this kind of life.

I think that is the challenge and the reason why I am here. I think in the near future life will be absolutely connected with this topic. My PhD in Digital Forensics, which I did in 2010, many years ago, and when I did this PhD, I was convinced that in a few years everyone would understand the values of digital evidence, of cyber security, the digitalization, would no longer be a topic. But now is the time where this kind of topic is really important.

Not only in your life, but also in my professional life, which is in the report, also in a company, because now probably people can understand that a bad way of collecting digital evidence is not something we can accept in the near future. Also, because we live in a world that in a certain sense is dominated by the machine, by AI. And so AI will try to have a standard.

So we need to know, and we need to perfectly understand, what will happen. And that is why I want to do this laboratory. It is a pretty crazy laboratory.

I am not sure that everything will work in the right way. But that is a lesson I learned from you. So I will hear from you, more than I will teach you in a certain sense.

But I think that is also a way to know together. And then, what I learned from you, is that of course the idea of discussing and creating the perfect lesson, a combination of law and digitality and technical topics. That is absolutely important.

I can tell you, I have the possibility to understand, I would say, 10 percent, what your knowledge is. And I think we have to work like that. You need me in a certain sense, to understand your world, to let me understand your world and a technical problem that I know in a certain sense, but in another sense I don't.

And at the same time I will present my regulations to you, that I don't think that the law will become important for you in the future, but the company, what perhaps happens in corporate forensics, that is something that will be very important for your future. But also to have a taste of what happens in a court, it is very important, because sometimes there is a lot of information that is not correct. And you have a strange idea of what justice is, in a general sense.

And it is important for you to understand what justice is and what happens in a court. Not because you will probably be involved in this kind of situation. And I think that in the future and also the trend we have now, is that people have no time and willingness to go to court.

And that is a good thing in a certain sense. But at the same time it is important to know that. So, I will help you to be introduced to this kind of work, but please, you have to help me to be introduced into your world.

And if I don't understand something, please help me. I think that is my challenge. My challenge is not to stay in my world, which is the University of Florence, where every kind of student accepts my evaluation, because I am the professor.

I have decided to stay in a world where I have to accept the fact that you can argue my evaluation. And I will accept, even if I explain what my position is, but I completely accept that you can argue. So I am here to change my mind.

So the same things that I ask from you, because my project in my life is, how can one say, to be a hybrid man, in a certain sense, not only my professional activity. I have decided to change myself. I was in a large law firm, which is also based in Turin.

And I have founded a law firm that is a combination of software firm, communication firm, engineering firm, data analysis firm and of course law firm. Because I think all these things should work together. You cannot live, and this course is perfect, in a certain sense.

That is why I am really proud to be here, because this course makes this kind of combination. I know that for you all the legal stuff is boring. I can say the same about some technical problems, but we have to work together, to try to give you the idea that these kinds of boring problems might not be so boring.

My goal is to find a way to explain these boring problems in the most beautiful way, because it is important to have this kind of combination of competences. That is my challenge. That is my goal.

That is the way. I am not here to make money. I can promise you that.

I am not here because I want to be a professor, because I am not a professor. I don't like being a professor. I would rather be a lawyer.

I am here for you. I am here totally for you. When I get up in the morning and come to you, it is for you.

Not for the university, not for the money, not to tell someone that I am a professor. That is not my job. My job is to have this kind of exchange.

And this kind of exchange. I think that you accept the fact that this is a matter of respect for you. And I hope that I receive the same respect that I have tried to give to you.

Then, of course, I made many mistakes every day. I can promise you that. So that is a statement.

What happened? I don't know. But it is important, the idea that you can understand who I am and why I am here. That is the introduction.

Okay? That is why, going back to the beginning, I can decide to stop the recording. Because if I don't see that there is an interest for you, then I try to have this kind of interest. Okay? That is the idea.

And if I make a mistake,




My lessons are not interesting or the content, the merit of the lesson, this is important, not the evaluation at the end. I think you have to tell me immediately because we can work together. So, having said that, we can start with the sharing. 

What we will do? We will start with an introduction of the course that is today. Then we will have this, we could say, theory part that it will be really important when we will have the laboratory. So, basically, for the next five weeks, you will have this lesson. 

Perhaps it will be a little bit less. I hope that I can also have just four lessons, but it's important because, anyway, I know that for you at the very end it's important that the exam and the evaluation of the exam. So, to be clear, this part, it will be really important for the exam because it's the notion that you will have at the very end.

But I can assure you that if you consider me in these four, five lessons, you have all the knowledge. I will try to summarize all the important knowledge, just to give you the possibility not to study a lot of notion, not because I don't want that you don't study, but I think that it's important that you study only the important notion because at the very end, the problem is that if I give you a lot of information, you will not keep what is the priority of the step that you have to understand. So, basically, these are the idea. 

We will start with CyberCAN Convention. That is a convention that is really important. We will go also a little bit on the UN Convention. 

Why I will start with CyberCAN Convention and UN Convention because in the last year, there was a lot of not Italian students. Can you tell me now how many not Italian students are present in the classroom? Can you raise your hand? Not Italian? One? Just one? Italian? Italian? All Italian? Okay. Can you also online give me in the chat an idea of what, how many non-Italian are present? Please, can you write me how many non-Italian because I see that probably, my idea is that it's difficult. 

Perfect. Thanks a lot. Okay, guys. 

Again, I don't want to be severe, but for the person that are online and they cannot, they will not give me an answer. For me, it's another reason why to stop the recording of the lesson. Okay, guys? Because this is not an opportunity not to have the lesson. 

Then I will obviously hear your reason about this before doing, but you have to be a little bit, to pay a little bit of attention because this is important. So, we have a few person and the reason why I ask you this is that because after CYBERCAN convention, we can make a focus only also on the Italian law. Not because I don't want, I want absolutely to respect all the not Italian students to give you an international view, but I think that most of you probably will remain in Italy and so I think that it's important to you to have an idea of the Italian scenario. 

So, it's important also to have this kind of overview. There is not many difference between the international scenario and for the student that are not Italian student, there is an opportunity to see a model, we could say the Italian model. But anyway, I will not lose a lot of time. 

Then we can go after the CYBERCAN convention to a little case that is quite famous in Italy, but it's not the evolution that you will probably, that you have probably read in the newspaper because what is important for me in the Garlasco case is the beginning of the case. Because there was a lot of digital forensics issue in that kind of case at the beginning. Then we will go on the IoT and digital forensics, there are some principles.

Then we have a focus that we will also make in this introduction about, introduction sorry, about territorial principle. The territorial principle give me the opportunity to go in the second case that is the Hackington case. Obviously, we cannot avoid a discussion about digital forensics and artificial intelligence. 

But I think that probably will be really short because I think that it's more interesting to analyze this kind of issue, digital forensics and digital, sorry, artificial intelligence and digital forensics when we will do the case study. How it worked the case study, the laboratory? I decided with perhaps Professor Razzeni anticipate to you, but I will discuss a little bit. And again, if you have any suggestion, if you have any issue to tell me, you have the time to do because we will start in about one month. 

So I have the time to prepare in a little different way the case. The idea is to go to the matter that Professor Razzeni explained to you in his class and to transport that kind of notion in a case that we simulate here. So there will be a simulation of trial, we will divide the class into prosecutor and lawyer. 

Probably I will be the judge or artificial intelligence will be the judge, we can decide. It's also amazing to see how if we can create a good knowledge base, the artificial intelligence can make this kind of decision. It would be another experiment in the experiment. 

But the real point is to have the possibility for you also to speak a little bit because it's important that you have a lot of written exam. And what is important, I want to hear your voice. This is important for you. 

Please also consider this because what is my experience again, consider me like an alien because I'm an alien because I'm in another way. I live in a world where it's really important how you can speak and how you can convince the other person about your right. Because if you want, for example, coming back to the evaluation, if you want to have this kind of goal, you have also to be clever and to start to have a strategy to convince somebody. 

But how you can convince somebody to exercise yourself to speak in a situation where you're not comfortable because speak with another person, it's absolutely easy when you are with your friend at the coffee machine. But when you have to speak in a class and you have to win a case and convince somebody about something, it's the way to obtain perhaps also a good point at the result, especially when you are not in your language. That is another problem because obviously to convince somebody in a different language is absolutely difficult.

If you are able to do this here, probably you will be able to convince me to have a different evaluation in the exam. So this is the exercise that I want to have from you. So speak guys, speak guys to me because it's important this. 

Not because I want to hear your voice, but it's important for you. Okay, so I think that I explained very well who I am, but I give you some information about my professional experience that probably can be interesting. It's not important to hear also the image is cut, but it's not. 

This is the formal issue here. Yes. Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. 

Okay. Sorry guys. Okay. 

Okay. Also the class here from the can you hear the right slide? Can you, can you check also perhaps if no, I have to do because can you tell me if you can see the slide correctly? Okay. Thanks. 

Perfect. I was explaining you about what is my professional experience. What, what happened to me? I, I, I finished my university in the, in 1999 and that was the word of Google because in that period the web search arrived in the world. 

And for me it was amazing. And so I decided to pass my life to try to understand if that kind of revolution that was the, the web revolution for me, you are living in AI revolution can, can, can have any kind of liability. My first book was internet service provider and liability. 

And in 2000 was quite crazy to, to speak about this kind of stuff because the people don't, when you, when you, especially my word that the people say internet is, is, is a game for nerd and something like that. And I had a different opinion. Probably my opinion was correct at the very end. 

But anyway, in 2006, I start to work with Google in an important case. That was the Google Vividam case. That is, that changed a little bit my life because I work obviously as a lawyer, as a consultant and not in the company, but I work for Google since 2014, 15. 

And my activity after winning this incredible case that if you're interested, I can describe, but in a coffee, because it's not connected with digital forensics. But what is it, what I want to, to give to you, the idea is that in these eight years, I, I always think that Google was the right company, the company that the claim of Google, probably you, you will not remember, you can, you cannot remember because you're too young, but the claim of Google was don't be evil. So the idea that Google was the good guy that always make the good choice.

And then after 2014, I start to think about that was, was not like this. And Google was not the, the always the right guy. I don't say that it's, it's the bad guy because they have changed the world in a certain sense. 

But again, I think that there is a lot of situation and problematic situation that can, that this company created. After Google, I start to work with Meta, with Airbnb, with X, Twitter, then now I'm not working with X, with all these kind of platforms. So I have a good knowledge of platform. 

And I also think that now is the, the world will change. Probably we will not have a platform in the next, we will not be the, the word of platform because I'm not, I cannot, now I cannot any prediction about what will be the AI revolution or what will be the new platform. But in a certain sense for me, the platform that we know now, it's something that probably will become old. 

What now is, is really the, the young like X, Instagram, TikTok probably will not be in my view, the future, but this is just my prediction. What is important coming back to the past is that in that period of my life, I, my work was to convince that if we want to stop a lot of criminal activity in the world, obviously online criminal activity, because this is my job, we need a different cooperation. So I stay in the United States from 2010 up 2012, 11, one year and a half. 

And then I, I, to convince Richard Salgado, that was the, the, the main person in Google to create a cooperation with the law, Italian law enforcement and also European law enforcement. I obtained in a certain sense, a result, but it was not a victory. It was just a, we could say a fake victory because as you can see in this course, one problem that we have is the jurisdiction problem.

And I, I fight and I fought also in the past to obtain these solution that for me is the new paradigm of jurisdiction, because we are not living now in Italy. We are living in a digital world that is not Europe, that is real, the real world. When you are going online, you, you think that you are in Italy, but you are not in Italy. 

When you go to, you will see when I explain you article 32 of the CYBERCAN convention. Yes. You don't think that this kind of stuff give you the possibility to go in, in completely other land from before you, it's normal, obviously. 

It's crazy what I'm going to say, but it's, it's, it's the, the most difficult issue that we have to face and nobody want to debate about this. That is the point because before internet to go in another country, you have to take a plane. You have to, to, to go in that country. 

And it's obvious that when you go in the other country, when you arrive like in the United States, now you will have a lot of control. Also your social network will be checked. And then you have to do this kind of stuff.

And for you, it's normal to do this. But when you, when you take a, when you go online and when you go to Instagram, for you, it's crazy to do any kind of, to accept any kind of different rule. But basically it's the same because from a virtual standpoint, you are going in the United States and you are not in the Italian rule, but your perception, because you are in Italy, you are physical in Italy, is that you can, you have the right to have the same rule of an Italian platform.

But this is not true. You need to understand this. This is the most important rule that I try to give you in this course, because we have to change this paradigm. 

We have to respect the fact that we are using, for the time being, US platform, basically. US slash a little bit of China platform, I would say. Perhaps in the future, these things will change. 

But anyway, now we have to start from this assumption to accept some strange things that you will learn in this course, but at the same time, you have also to have this kind of knowledge. And this is basically what I did since 2014. Then from 2014 up to 2022, I have founded a company, I mentioned before, where there is this interconnection. 

And that's why I'm here, but I have already explained you this story. And I think that the interconnection between all the tech and law issue will be a secret of success. I would say also ethic in this strange period of time, but for the time being, it's also, we can limit our course on tech and law.

So, where we are? We are in a world that has changed really, really fast. This is a really old movie for you. And they use an old technology, that is a telephone. 

But from the telephone that was invented by Guglielmo Marconi. And then since social network, nobody changed. So, the tool always changed because we start with the physical telephone, that is a cable telephone. 

So, you cannot, you don't have a mobile telephone. When I started my life until 1998, so 25 years, like your age, the idea to have a mobile telephone was quite crazy. I would say, since 90, I had the first mobile telephone because I was absolutely nerd when I was 15. 

So, in 1990. And also, you have some model also before. But the point is that the idea to exchange, to have the possibility to have the mobile telephone in your every single day of your lifetime, of your life started basically at the end of 90.

But again, the point is, this kind of technology is just a technology between us. So, it's a technology where a person exchanges view with another person. Then arrives 2000, and probably here where we are born. 

And the other two paradigms of where we are happen really, really fast. Because technology about us start to begin in 2008. Because there is a huge difference between Google and Meta. 

Google create technology, create innovation. Meta create a tool to change the paradigm of technology. Because the technology start to be a technology between us, I use an email to write an email to you, to a technology that was about us. 

And this create a lot of psychological issue that I'm not sure that this is the right way to live. But this is not because I'm a boomer. I'm not also a boomer. 

But anyway, technically, in a certain sense, I am. But anyway, the point is, the fact is that is true, because give you another perception, the communication was like Sanremo. Okay, there is Carlo Conti, and everybody of us will observe one person that is in the middle. 

And this was the communication before social media. Then arrive social media where everybody can write whatever he wants in a totally crazy way, totally crazy way. Yesterday, I was at the mobile with a person that probably you know very well, because this is your generation, wonderful generation, Ale Della Giusta. 

How many of you knows Ale Della Giusta? Call me and tell me, I have a problem. Tell me, Ale. What you did? I did a fake video. 

Why? Because I want to demonstrate the idea of the occupation of the home and why you create a sort of candid camera for this. And he said, I really don't know, but I want to make something new. Okay. 

So this is the point that we have to face a person that make a really crazy issue. Even if I appreciate Ale Della Giusta, I think that he's a good creator. I like him.

But I cannot accept the fact that one day you wake up and say, okay, I will do a bullshit, completely a bullshit. And I don't have nobody that tell me, hey friend, this is not a good idea. Don't do that. 

Do another thing. This is the social media. So you can wake up and go online and write a stupid issue because everybody of us do a stupid issue normally in his life.

Everybody of us. Again, I made a lot of mistakes every single day, but luckily I don't use social media to present my mistake to the world. Just a limited amount of person know how many mistakes I do. 

This is the advantage to a different use of social media, but it's also an opportunity to have a new work in a certain sense for a limited amount of person. But this is another story. So Meta at the time, Facebook invented the new way to communicate because the idea that was the genial idea of Mark Zuckerberg was, okay, we have to create a technology that gives the opportunity to be about us, not between us. 

But the idea that the change between between and about is the fact that you have also to take the responsibility. So not only the fact that this kind of technology observe you, this is obviously the other consequences of the technology about us and the business model of this kind of technology. You have the imaging of the CCTV, the facial recognition of a CCTV. 

Obviously this is an iconic idea of the technology about us, but the real technology that is about us are the social media. And you can understand the issue about the social media because now with AI, the crazy issue is that this kind of platform are not interesting about our data. And why are not interesting about our data? Because they have our data, because there is an incredible opportunity for the AI platform to obtain data. 

There is a lot of, I cannot give you this information because it's confidential, but you will see probably in some scientific paper, this information about how many data meta will share with a lot of AI company. And this is something that is the consequences of the fact that we gave our data. We gave our data not only for commercial purposes, probably there is a lot of other opportunity also from apart the fact of the cyber crime opportunity, but also the cyber warfare that is probably the most delicate issue that we have to face with this kind of technology that is about us.

So this is the technology, the generation, your generation is technology about us. The new generation is technology in us, but, and also again, this is an iconic image, but you don't have to think that the technology in us is just the idea to have the robotization that we are living now, but more than the robots, I think that AI is a technology in us. So this is the word that is changed in a really, really fast way, in a really fast way, because again, I start to understand how it works, the social media issue after six years. 

And for me, it was a lot of time. It's crazy that I understand how it works, the system for, in six years, because now I can say that was clear also in 2008, but in 2008, everything was faster. And then you say, okay, wow, meta. 

And at the same time, Google video, but it become immediately YouTube and say, wow, YouTube, you can upload video. Guys, was incredible. The life is like now with AI that you say, okay, I don't have to do my thesis.

I have the possibility to have GPT. The same was in 2008 from a technological perspective. So everybody, we were really, really interested to see what will be the future.

Then a math exercise for you. What are the result for the first one? And here, why? Because if you write in letter the first one, I appreciate it from you. Yeah, the comma you are going to say, but the comma is a rule that give you the possibility to do this kind of exercise or not.

So the lesson that you have from this metric size, that if the difference between 14 and 11 is important, the natural language is not the best way to solve the problem because from the, it's absolutely true that this one is 11. We all agree. We all agree. 

No doubt that the second one is 11, but here you can have, and this is what is the word that they can want to give you the idea of doubt. That is the most important point in the legal world, the doubt, because now here we are in the interpretation issue. You can say most probably is 11 because it's correct because there is the comma and then you can interpret the comma as the way to say that is 11. 

But at the same time, and please correct me if I'm wrong,




have an idea that is 14. You don't have the certainty because there is no a mathematical rule that is applied with natural language. The mathematical rule is applied with number, not with natural language. 

Why I want to insist about this? Because we are living in a world where at the same time we want to apply, and please this is not for the exam but is for you to understand the future. We lived in a world before your birth where all the decision has been made with natural language. The idea is that the engineer just have a limited role in the society. 

Really important role but really limited role. Now the situation is completely changed. Your role will be fundamental because the machine, you could say yes, generative AI, statistics but anyway the machine in general work with number and we have to face this issue. 

So you have a fundamental role in the society in the next 30-40 years because the decision should be made not more with the natural language but with the mathematical rules because it's the only way to discuss with the machine in my view. Because if we start with the natural language the machine become crazy and the probability to have a lot of mistake it will be enormous. So that's why I think that it's important for you to know some basic knowledge of law because probably you have the possibility to make some decision and the only issue that I can give you probably in the future as an attorney, as a person of law I would say in general terms is to give you the competence but then you have to put this competence in a machine.

In general terms that it will be AI. So just to give you the transition that we had for me, now for me it's absolutely normal but I don't know, do you know the triangle of Google? How it works at Google? It's important because it's a company that made a lot of money in the last period of time and the triangle of Google is that you have at the top of this triangle the engineer and then you have marketing and legal. So any kind of decision is not made by a person of product, a person of sales, a person of marketing, that kind of issue is the part of triangle but is down and also the legal, all the compliance issue are down. 

The person that can make the decision is the engineer and that's why you have created, Google created in the last 20 years a lot of innovative tool because at the very end there was not the lawyer saying you cannot do this because there is an interpretation of article 17 or it's 14 or 11, 14 or 11. This is an attorney because we always spend a lot of time to evaluate the risk that in a certain sense is a good point but in the other sense cannot give you the idea to create something, to produce something. But what is the consequences of the triangle? And I will explain very well and this is something that also can happen to you, to stay in an island that is an unknown island because nobody in the world should know where you are and this happened to an engineer of Google that created the Google Street View because Google Street View is an incredible tool but the engineer, remember the triangle, at a certain point said okay we have to map all the streets in the world, perfect.

And how, you probably know how it works, there is a lot of machine, a car, auto vehicle that goes around the world and they have a server and they have the possibility to capture two things, all the image but also all the wi-fi and why they map the wi-fi I think that you know because it's important for the geolocation. So basically they started to have this kind of information but then the engineers start to think in an engineer way, so say okay we are going, remember that we are not in 2026, we are in 2008 in this moment of the life and in 2008 when they make this kind of incredible innovative idea to say okay we put a car in every part of the world to make a photo of every street, this for me is a genius idea, say okay as we are going to map all the wi-fi what happens if a wi-fi is an open wi-fi without any kind of password and I tell you for sure that in 2008 there was a lot of crazy people that want to share wi-fi connection and there was not password, there was a lot of situation like this with a free wi-fi, totally free wi-fi and say okay if I have a free wi-fi, totally free wi-fi, I can also take some payload data because what is the idea, the legal idea of an engineer, if there is a free wi-fi the person they don't have any, they share also the information not only the wi-fi but also the information that pass through the system and so they start to technically wiretap, intercept all the open wi-fi around the world. At a certain point in Germany happens that a car was stolen, a Google car was stolen, it's been stolen, so the police arrived and the policeman when found the car and gave back to the Google company in Belgium says, but what is this kind of tool, can you explain me a little bit and another engineer said ah yes I can explain perfectly how it works and the police say oh so you are going to make a wiretapping in all the Germany, no not only in all the Germany, around the world because from a legal standpoint if they have the open wi-fi I can intercept the communication and 140 criminal proceedings starting in 140 states in the world and that's why that engineer that was asked as a witness and also investigated in some cases and witnessed in other cases from 140 states decided to stay in an island that is not known and I don't know what is the island but this engineer is not in Google now but he's in an island and this is the reason why I think that this course is important because you have if there is this triangle I can accept that you will be at the top because if you want the evolution probably you will be on the top of the triangle but consider also the other angle because it's important the other angle so ask to a lawyer it's a good idea sometimes if you don't want to stay in an unknown island for the rest of your life.

So what is the legal design? The legal design is something that I try to obtain because it's the most difficult issue obviously legal stuff again is boring and so I think that the main problem is that we don't want to combine law, tech and design but Margaret Hagan if you're interested you can go online and google her Margaret Hagan start to combine these three issues not because we want to use a lot of image in our legal stuff it's not a question in that kind of design it's not to see to do something that is nice but is to avoid the two problem the first problem is that there is a lot of information overload in the legal stuff so when you I completely understand that when you start to see a law for example a directive a convention a normal person but also a lawyer become crazy because say why I need the 300 pages to make this kind of regulation for example the AI act because probably you can summarize in a really short document this is the goal that we have because if we don't have this knowledge and this capacity to create a legal design issue the only person that could have the complete knowledge of all the regulation in the world probably will be the machine and will be the AI and not the person because now the complexity of the world especially when we talk about a technical issue it's really important most of a lot of you I see that also made the courses of made the course of cyber security and law and as you see there is a lot of new law complex law and we need to find a way to simplify the law and I think that your part is really important when we talk about information overload the other point is written by lawyers for lawyers the other problem that we created but it's also your problem we can say written from by engineer for engineer we could say also the same so when we start to be really competent in a certain matter we use to think that all the person have the same knowledge of us so I say okay I will and my problem is to be correct not to be understood but to be correct so I write a lot of pages of really strange terms because the idea is yes there is another attorney that or lawyer that can read and understand but it's not I when I write a law when I write a any kind of document is not for another lawyer is for a citizen is for a manager of a company this and so I have to think that is not I cannot write something thinking that only a lawyer can understand we need to write for all the population and this is also your important goal if I may but now we are talking about legal design but I would say also IT design I would call it because sometimes a lot of IT issue are too much technical and so basically yes in the nerd world you can be really united but in the other world you create separation and division and this is that we need to understand if we want to work together in a hybrid world where we have competence that match together to be better in the next world so it's important the empathy the awareness of unconscious bias the respect for community all this kind of stuff it's really important when you write a document but again this is not a suggestion for the engineer but it's a suggestion for the lawyer so the problem is the legal design then we can see a short video I think that you know very well what is dark patterns no okay just a second I will take the video online no okay perhaps this is the video okay dark patterns are features of interface design crafted to trick users into doing things that they might not want to do but which benefit the business in question here's an example have you ever tried to delete your Amazon account here's the Amazon homepage what's the first thing you might think to do the obvious place to look is the account drop down here once you're in here you look around it's a lot of information but if I'm interested in deleting my account I think that your account is probably a good place to go once I'm on this page there's a lot more information payment options login and security and a bunch of stuff down here unfortunately you could click every link on your account page but none would deliver you to a place where you could actually delete it because it's not here in order to actually delete your Amazon account you have to go all the way down to the bottom of the page and under let us help you click oh once you're in here you have to navigate to need more help because you know putting it on this page would just be too easy then click contact us this is where it starts to get ridiculous still nowhere to be seen but of the four options on the top that you want help with click prime or something else you want something else in this tell us more about your issue drop down there's still nothing that suggests account deletion you just have to know to click login and security and then in a second drop down there it is the magic button close my account except in order to actually do that you now have to have a chat conversation with an Amazon associate who's going to tell you all the reasons account deletion is a bad idea see you can't delete the account yourself they have to do it for you this is a dark pattern a crappy user experience that intentionally makes it difficult almost impossible without help to do something that hurts Amazon ux specialist harry brignell categorizes the specific kind of dark pattern as a roach motel design that makes it very yes then we can see other example but it's not important just to give you an idea of what is a patterns probably most of you already knows very well what is the dark patterns the problem is that the dark patterns is connected with legal design so the the the the issue is that we can if we don't combine in the right way the technical point and the legal part we can create we can create an incredible dark pattern for the other person that does not have competence on the legal side and that does not have competence on the tech side so that's why it's really but really important to avoid dark patterns and this is the the rule that i want to to give you obviously if you don't want to be if you don't want to work in the legal department of amazon and now probably you will ask me why you are yes it's not important so the idea we must not to be complicated especially because sometimes the the idea to be complicated start from the idea that we want to have more knowledge and more to to create a sort of protection for your career for your competence for your life no the idea is we we cannot be complicated it's really important to avoid this and now the point is why you i make this rule and why i think that this rule is important in computer forensic side because after 15 years of failure because for 15 years i in every kind of sector digital sector justice company i i ask to to all the person to consider the importance of digital forensics because i think that digital forensics it's really fundamental for for our future and i i have now the conviction the idea the certainty i would say that one of the main problem is that we are too much complicated we need to simplify the role of forensics and we need to simplify the role of the the the the the evidence the digital evidence to all the people for the person that want to to to work in this field that is uh it's quite crazy because we have in italy a lot of digital forensics expert i will suggest you for this course to start to do to to to frequent to to to have the to to sign sorry in a in a newsletter that is called cfi cfi computer forensics italy you can you can have now it's a little bit there is no many activity in that newsletter but you can have a lot of information and it's a community that probably is connected with more than 1000 1500 computer forensic in italy so there is a huge community of this kind of people but there is a yes there is some activity i will present you paolo dalchecco and stefano de fratepietro paolo dalchecco is quite famous because now he works with the mediaset and so probably you have seen in seen it in some series of i'm not i don't i don't know exactly i i see just some screenshots from linkedin i'm not interested but i know very well paolo but apart from that kind of activity like paolo dalchecco like stefano fratepietro whatever there is a lot of computer forensic that are not understood why paolo dalchecco and stefano fratepietro are famous because they are really easy to be understood and so what they in reason why they go to the television because because computer forensics it's really an amazing world but you need to be able to explain to a normal person if you are not able to explain this kind of stuff to a normal person that does not have any competence you cannot be you cannot have any possibility to to to do this kind of stuff that's why it's important to uh to to to speak because you need to be uh to convince someone basically and absolutely you cannot be complicated because if you start to be complicated nobody will hear you so uh this is a stupid but it's an important suggestion the second suggestion it's not stupid it's really the and this the article 22 of gdpr and while we're discussing about gdpr we have already studied the gdpr in the other courses for for the some some of you that did the other courses but it's important because the data subject shall have the right not to be subject to a decision based solely solely on automatic processing including profiling which produce legal effects concerning him or her or similar significant effects unless there is the necessary for entering in a contract is authorized by a member is based on the data subject explicit consent anyway what is the the meaning of the article 22 the meaning of the article 22 is the fact that any kind of automatic automated decision cannot be uh accepted in the future and in the AI world because if we accept this we can create a world that it will be probably a lot discriminated and this is why i think that the article 22 is really important now i want to simplify and then i will back come back to uh computer forensics but i want to give you practical example just to give you also to have your opinion because perhaps you disagree with me you think that this is a good way to have our future but again i made a lot of mistake i don't want to make the same mistake when i see again because i i was fascinating about social media and now i see what are the impact of social media that is not obviously not only bad stuff but we need to prevent important mistake about automated decision because we are living in a world that will be dominated by automated decision because we don't have the time to make the decision so this is lex machina lex machina is a product is a software that gives the possibility to make to make a prediction of the possibility to win a case how it works they study all the case made by a certain judge and then they when you ask to this obviously AI system um the the in the in you explain the case that you are going to face uh in the court the system match this case and obviously you have also to indicate the judge with the potential orientation of that kind of judge so probably you are going just to make an example about you are going to face an IP intellectual property a case and you have this judge that is expert on intellectual property and you see that this judge made a decision against a certain position in the 97 percent of the case just in three percent of the case the judge decided in favor of this case so the system tell you you have a really little percentage to win the case with this judge why this software was banned and was prohibited in France in 2019 so they they they were really fast to understand the risk of this software that now will be introduced in Italy and is also used a lot in United States because it can create a bias because it can create a bias to the judge because if you are a judge and you know that there is a machine that analyze your case probably you want to we could say change the perspective of this kind of percentage and also I don't think that it's correct to analyze all these case because you have to respect the independence of the judge you cannot go so in detail but this is my opinion probably this software will be approved in Italy and we will have this software but what is another part of this software that make me crazy but pressed for you is the right way to to to have a future and I'm again I'm interested about you because the same issue is made by with the attorney so you want to know if Giuseppe Baciago is a good attorney and then you make an analysis and say okay in this specific case how much time Giuseppe win the case and lost the case and the system say Giuseppe is not a good lawyer for this kind of matter because he lost 75 percent of the case why for me this is another problem is a bias for me because if you do this kind of analysis of an attorney it's not like you cannot create a trip advisor of an attorney in a certain sense it's the future but the problem is when you go to a restaurant you can yes you can you can have different taste whatever but basically you have the same food but I don't have the same food because the food are my client and it depends of what kind of client I have the victory or the loss because if my client are criminal probably I always lost and this is a good thing for the justice system okay because it's good it's a good idea that the criminal go to jail they need to have a lawyer but they have to go to jail but if you evaluate me about my possibility to win the case it's something that it's not for me it's not a good way to to analyze an attorney but in a certain sense it's a good way for a criminal to analyze an attorney if you understand me my reasoning so this is a an automated decision because you can be influenced with this kind of software about the decision that are really important another automated decision is a compass system compass system is was a system that was a it's an important case that happened a lot of years ago we are talking about 2016 probably and was a correctional offender management profiling for alternative sanctions so the idea is to evaluate the likelihood of a criminal to commit again a new crime ProPublica that was a freedom association found that the white defendant who re-offended within the next two years were absolutely labeled low risk rather than black offenders re-offenders and this is another problem that we have so as you know garbage in garbage out this is the problem that we have and so when we will have probably a system that is absolutely certified we can accept the fact that the machine can autonomously decide but for the time being a false positive in a digital forensics can change people's life because because when we when we talk about digital forensics there now there are a lot of tool AI tool a lot of automation that we can create but the problem is that you are discussing about the life of a person




be used not only in the criminal case, obviously the criminal case are the most sexy one and all the person thinks about the criminal case that can be used in the, where digital forensics can be used to solve it. But we can also have a lot of civil case, a lot of corporate forensics case. I had recently a case where they made an analysis of a mobile phone and they made an absolutely stupid analysis with AI because the problem of AI now is that obviously I have to analyze, I would say two terabyte of email because I have a company and I have two terabyte of email before generative AI, before AI the person start to make a search with some keywords and with the keywords start to make a connection that probably are not the right connection, but cannot create a theory. 

Now what happened with the generative AI and obviously I don't have the evidence because generative AI is forbidden in the labor law, in criminal law, in civil law, in any kind of activity. But my feeling is that when you have two terabyte of email, you put this terabyte in the AI system and say, okay, find the theory to say that Giuseppe Bacciago is a criminal. And then you can have a lot of answer that perhaps also can manipulate the evidence. 

So use this kind of tool in an improper way can create a lot of stuff. And when you have a lot of data, now I have an important case where we are discussing about 45 gigabyte of WhatsApp messages. Fortunately, there is a lot of video, but there is an incredible story. 

There is 10 years of a life of a person. So when you have to analyze this kind of stuff and you probably are not able to read all the WhatsApp message. So obviously you have to use automation, but the way you use automation is the way to decide the life of a person. 

So it's important that also a false positive can change people's lives. Okay, guys, we have finished the introduction. It's the time for a coffee.

For you, we can see you back at, I can kiss you back at, I would say 1955, 15 minutes. Okay. If you have any question here, I leave the question for you, but it's not important.

It's not part of the exam. Don't worry. It's just food for thoughts, but if you are interested.

He was the founder of a large cybersecurity company and now he founded this website called Identify. He says it has been validated by the whole world. He has some problems with the AI, but it's too powerful. 

And then also the AI detectors. They can say, I can give you the probability that it has been touched, but I can't give you the certainty of this thing. For example, last year we did wireless laboratories and we did it by hand, by hand, and we did it by hand. 

But why is this? It's also because my only exposure, which is English, is trying to talk to people. But if I start to understand what the patterns are, I start to say, however, what are the patterns that he uses, that I have learned from the AI? How can someone say that the AI did it instead of me writing it? Yes, that's right. I agree with what he says. 

What you're saying, maybe I understand better, because it's not that it's forbidden to use it, otherwise it would have been a bit categorical. It is forbidden to use it in absolute terms, that is, it is forbidden to use it, that is, it can be used if it becomes a biological instrument. Which means, however, that you have to find a balance between the use of AI and, of course, the human control.

But you also have to take the responsibility of the user. Yes, but above all you have to demonstrate how and with what methodology you can control it. For example, I studied SHAP methodology, LIME. 

There are a number of methodologies now, which are in the banking world, but which I would like to transfer also to the world of logistics, because in my opinion you have to find the explainability methodology of your control system. So main in the loop, main on the loop, this is another thing that I didn't know, that is, the difference between main in the loop, so every single direction is taken by a human who controls it, or main on the loop, that is, the human who supervises the activity of the AI. Now we are talking about this, there are papers, but there is nothing really solidified in the Digital Forensics that says what are the methodologies where you use the AI, it is precisely the certifying that you have controlled the output.

In my opinion, this is the challenge, that is, I completely agree on the fact that you can say that you can control the output, but you can't say that you can control the output, because you can control the output, but you can't say that you can control the output, a question on politics, a question on politics, I have not read something about the bank transaction, I have not read something about the bank transaction, bogus, bogus, we understand that this is not a coincidence, I would like to ask you about Sorazzini, what are the differences between him and Sorazzini? Given the profile of the person, it could be difficult. Sorazzini is an engineer, so he deals with the technical part of digital forensics, explaining the technical aspects of digital forensics, which is a very engineering job. I do the technical part.

Can you imagine what I do? I can imagine the legal part. Perfect, this is legal. So I have more of a side to explain digital forensics, which is often connected to the legal part.

I explain the legal part, both from a philosophical point of view, and by doing laboratories, as I said, where you have to find the data. Laboratories? Yes, there will be laboratories, but they are not technical laboratories. They are laboratories where you will do procedural simulations to understand what the legal impacts of what you do in this case are going to be.

If not, you will explain it to us. For example, I wanted to do a little more in-depth about digital forensics, but from what I have seen, also in the digital forensics course, you also focus a lot on the legal part. Yes, it is not wrong, but because this is an English course, as I explained at the beginning, it is an important topic.

The problem is that in another year, I had 60% of foreign students, so I could not do a course on Italy. Now that it seems to me that the percentage has completely reversed, I will move the program a little more, because you still have to have a European version, because we are also in London, and then you have to put it on the European matrix. But what can I do? I explain it only in Italian, because seeing that, at least, it seems to me that foreign people are mostly Italian, it seems to me that the story is very Italian.

If you want to do it in Italian, you can do it in European. I don't say international, but it seems to me that there is, I don't know, maybe in my country, I don't know, but it seems to me that there is a shift on the development, in this sense, of the law, but I don't know if it's in Europe, if they are shifting the responsibility beyond the field. I will try to understand the difference.

There are regulations, the other course, when it comes to IT security, cyber security, the European vision is standard, there are worldwide notifications, why? Because those are necessarily international regulations, so it is not that even today in Italy all the regulations, DORA, AI Act, GDPR, are all European regulations directly applicable in Italy, because you want to create a standard. The computer forensics, that is, the subject we are studying now, this of today, is a subject that is very connected, instead, to the national law, because if you commit a crime, I'll give you an example, which is a classic case of computer forensics, you can't be charged with a different law than the Italian law, that is, all the system regulations are more and more international, except for situations that lead you, I'll make it simple, to court, whether it's a criminal case, a civil case, everything that can lead you to court must remain linked to international law, this is particularly complex. I don't know if I explained myself.

So the point is, it is difficult to get out of European regulations, I totally agree that there is an international trend, everything is fair, except for computer forensics, because computer forensics is very much linked to the possibility of having a proof and then bringing it to justice. Okay? I'm very curious, I have a big mouth, I have a 60-100,000 words in Italian, what do you think? In my opinion, in fact now I have cut a part, I have talked a lot about the UN conventions, to have a work-life approach, which seemed respectful to me, for people who know Italian, but they didn't have much, if I have to be honest, At this point, there is a didactic, they do not have the same usefulness. However, they are international norms that are very programmatic, they are not specific, but they have a programmatic review, which means that they give indications that guide them, especially the regulations of the United Nations, which, in parentheses, has been approved, but no one considers it, unfortunately.

But the problem is that I wanted to find a way to be able to dialogue and to let those people who, presumably, do not have an international university, the notions that could be international. So, yes, I did it that way. Now, instead, to fulfill those notions, however, I give them both to the Seventh Convention, which is fundamental for both the United Nations and the Center for International Development.

Thank you. Yes, in the thesis. No, in the thesis I do it that way.

Okay. I want to go back to this world, I want to get to know it already. What is your profession? I continue on my path, I am a teacher.

Good. So, you told me that you know a lot of people. Yes, in fact, what I'm trying to do is to get to know people.

As I said, I am fully available to get to know people, no problem, I will put it in contact, regardless of the profession. We are distributing the teaching plan now, which is the one that must follow the same role for all students. From the teaching plan, instead, if I need to go there, the limit to which I can be of help, I will do it.

I will definitely present it in the future. It will not be an easy path, but it is interesting. It must be very interesting.

Okay. I'm going to take my time. Yes, it's better.

Not right away, I finished the course. No, no, no. I will take my best time.

I have a question, I don't know if you want to answer it or not. Alice is right, I think. Alice is right, I think.

You can, right? No, no, I don't think so. I want to make a case against a journalist from the Republic who said that in his book, which is in the description of this video here, that he basically, in the end, in which he ends up giving the police statement, frames a thing of Daniel Flores, for example, where there is a poster, a manifesto, obviously because it was part of the image, his lawyer, who is now no longer his lawyer, approved it, and therefore, when there were journalists, he denied the fact that the press would have wanted to give the government the image to make people laugh. So a small public statement came out, I wrote it myself, it will also be on Instagram.

There are a few things that say, for example, he says that this thing, as usual, I don't understand why it wouldn't be a valid idea, what he wanted to do. But let's say, in 1996, there was a referendum, and I didn't even know there was a referendum. Exactly.

So initially, they wanted to put it on the side, on the other hand, it would have been us. In reality, if one wanted, but no one has proposed it, let's hope not, then that would be a real violation, and in itself it could cause a lot of trouble. But for now, he won't even give the idea to the magistrate.

No, for now, no one is there. He is the one who wants to defend himself. But now I also have the right to make a joke, I'm making the video on Fedez and Masino.

For those who care about that stuff. Which is more important, because in my opinion he doesn't have to do anything proactively, there is a sad story in which he got involved, and time goes by, in my opinion people forget it in a while. Sometimes you have to... Go ahead, guys.

I can't. We can start. We probably finished 10 minutes before, so you have time to refresh your brain a little bit, because I don't think we are able to complete all the slides today.

So we don't have to rush. But if we are able, I'm more than happy, because we have done another issue. If not, we can continue the next lesson.

Now we are discussing some fundamental definitions. Please, I will try to explain. I think they are basically simple for you.

The problem is that here, for the exam, it's not important to learn by heart again. So sometimes I receive the answers that are completely learned by heart. It's not important.

Also because, as you probably understand, the cross-check question will be, you don't have to learn by heart, just to know very well the concept, not to make confusion, but normally are not so difficult, my question. The open question that you will have from me, it will be probably more connected with the laboratory, with the case that we will do in the laboratory. So again, the laboratory is an opportunity for you, again.

But obviously the content of the laboratory probably, presumably, it's real probable that you will have a question that is the case in the laboratory is connected with this. Just to give you an idea of what is the notion that you need to know. Again, this is a notion that is really simple, but it's important.

What is, from a legal standpoint, a digital slash electronic evidence? We have a different definition. I prefer, but again, there are a lot of definitions. For example, the definition that was made in the Council of Europe was, I don't want to overestimate myself, but just to give you the idea of what is not important, just in a sense is a way to underestimate myself.

I wrote this definition. So this is something that is not really relevant, but just to have an idea, all this definition says basically the same stuff. We will read together.

Digital evidence is any information of evidential value, whether memorized or sent in a digital format. And this is the definition of scientific working group of digital evidence. This is the definition that I prefer.

But anyway, it's basically the same. Eugene Casey, that is an author, really relevant in the digital forensic side or computer forensic side, is any probative information stored or transmitted in a digital form that the party to a court case may use at the trial. Why I think that is quite limited, because it's true that at the very end we are discussing, as probably we discussed also with the student before, everything will go to a trial.

But it's also important to say that a digital evidence can be used also in a different way. We will see also in the corporate forensics side. Then we have electronic evidence, is information generated, stored or transmitted using electronic devices that may be relied, maybe in this case, relied upon in court.

I would like to give you two assumptions, two preliminary assumptions. One is connected to the discussion that was made before, because one student correctly told me that I said that the AI is not permitted in the digital forensic side. In a certain sense, it's not a mistake, my statement, but it should be clarified because we have a law in Italy and also the AI Act in Europe that state that we cannot use exclusively digital forensics.

Also the GDPR basically that was Article 22 that I mentioned before says the same thing. So we can use artificial intelligence only if there is a human oversight. So the problem of the future is how can we combine the use of AI with the human oversight that is feasible? Because sometimes some theory that now I hear from a lot of professors, not only a professor of digital forensics, but also a professor of ethics is crazy because if I have to review all the content made by the AI, I don't need AI.

I just use the human side. So the human oversight cannot be too much, but at the same time the human oversight cannot be just a click, okay, yes, and without any kind of control. So this is the problem of the use of AI in the digital forensic side.

Just to clarify that statement that was a little bit strong when I said before. And the other assumption that is important, preliminary assumption that you can hear from me a lot of time, digital forensics and the course is called the computer forensics. This is a long story.

Normally the people use computer forensics. For me, I also wrote a book about this. It's not the right terms because I think that computer is one of the device where you can have digital evidence.

Now you will have digital evidence from a lot of other device. So that's why I would prefer to use digital forensics rather than computer forensics. But that does not make any differences.

Please, if I say digital forensics, don't start to think that you have to use one or the other. The problem is just to understand us. I will use probably digital forensics because it's my theory, but you can easily use computer forensics.

There is no problem also because the exam is called computer forensics. So no problem at all. So just to be clear because other times there was some confusion like there are two different courses.

No, no, it's the same issue, just a different way to call it.




What is the characteristic of digital evidence? Obviously, it's invisible. It may need to be interpreted by a specialist. And the interpretation of the specialist, it's a part that we will study also today.

But it's really important. And coming back to legal design principle, it's really important not to make a complex theory. It may be altered or destroyed through normal use.

And it can be copied without limits. I don't have to comment this slide. It's obvious, but it's important.

This is more important, the legal requirements of digital evidence. And also, this is the other characteristics. And obviously, if you remember, it's not a problem here.

If you remember this slide, it's important like the other one, because it could be asked in a question during the exam. So the first one is the admissible. That means compliant with law and best practice, admissible.

The admissibility of an evidence, it's one of the most difficult issue to understand for an engineer, because the problem is, when we talk about admissibility, you think, okay, I have the evidence. I gather the evidence. Okay.

And in this mobile, you can find that I'm a serial killer. Perfect. But before taking this mobile, you need to follow a procedure.

You know, this is a simple example. But we have to start from this simple example. So if you find this information of a serial killer in a court, I can destroy this information that constitutes an evidence, because you have taken this information without a prosecutor order, without a judge that decided that this evidence can be taken by my mobile.

So when we talk about admissibility, we need the legal grounds to gather evidence. The fact that you found an evidence does not mean that you can use this evidence in a court. A huge question that will be discussed probably with Paolo Dalchecco is the open source intelligence issue.

How can we use this kind of evidence that we found online? Are we entitled to use this evidence or not? It depends. Normally, Article 32a, the answer is yes, but it's not always yes. Another issue is, what happens if you take an evidence without respecting the principle of digital forensics? Even if the judge at the very end tries to not consider the principle of digital forensics, and that's why we have a lot of problems to explain to the world, but also the judge, how important digital forensics is.

Because they say, yes, you don't respect the principle of digital forensics, but at the very end, I will accept this evidence. Even if we have a precise law in Italy since 2008 that explains that if you don't respect what Professor Azzeni and in a little part myself will explain in this course, it's not admissible to the court. If you make a mistake doing the forensics activity, you cannot present the evidence to the court.

This is the concept of admissibility. It's important, the admissibility, because it could start from, again, the idea of legal grounds of a court order. Basically, it's important that before entering the life of a person, you should have legal grounds to do that.

You cannot be a policeman. Even if you find this evidence, you need to have legal grounds to access this evidence. This is not because we want to protect criminals.

This is because we want to protect democracy. We want to protect fundamental rights, because if we accept that a person starts to become a policeman, if he wants, we lose some fundamental rights that is the base of our democracy. This is really important.

At the same time, it's really important also to consider the procedure. The procedure is the technical procedure, the respect of technical procedure. Even if sometimes, and we will see during the laboratory, digital forensics is not really well respected by the judge, basically because they don't, as I explained to you before, they don't understand very well the issue.

They don't understand the risk of the alteration, because there is a lot of possibility to make an alteration of a digital evidence, as you know. But the judge, now with the deepfake revolution, I would say, but deepfake is not only the deepfake that we know now with the generative AI. Deepfake exists in a long time.

But now with the deepfake revolution, the judge starts to say, okay, so there is a risk that you can alter the evidence. Yes, I'm telling you since 2008, but now I'm more than happy that you understood that it's easy to alter an evidence. So this is really important to understand that the evidence should be admissible.

Again, authentic, obviously, avoid any digital evidence tampering that is another consequence of the admissibility, but it's a characteristic that is important, then should be reliable and believable. And this is really understandable for a judge. Again, this is a requirement also provided by the law.

It's important that the judge can understand the evidence. Please, guys, the exercise that you will need to demonstrate to me after this course is that you are able to explain to me, but also to my mother, the case. Proportional, respect fundamental rights of parties affected by the measure.

What is the principle of proportionality? You have seen this principle also for the person that frequented the cyber security and law courses in the GDPR. But the proportionality is also a privacy issue, but it's also the fact that I respect the right of a party. So I make a simple example.

When you work in the digital forensic side, when you start to work with the evidence, normally you start to enter in the life of a person. And everybody of us, and probably if you do a forensic analysis of your mobile phone, you will discover, everybody of us have an idea of himself or herself completely different of what is the reality. Because every one of us, you don't have to do a complex forensic analysis.

It's just see what are the last chronology of your Chrome provider and web provider. And then you will see that you have navigated in a lot of websites that are absolutely not connected with the idea that you have. Why I want to start from this concept? Because when you start to analyze the life of a person, you see, oh, he went to a porn video or a lot of other bad issue, ethical or whatever.

And you cannot make a judgment because again, any person perhaps has some reason to explain why he did some things that is not going to, obviously, I saw a lot of things that are absolutely worse rather than go to a porn app or whatever website. For example, what happened when you start to see that this person that you are investigating because you are going to analyze his mobile phone has a relation with another person that is not his wife. That happened to me in the last case.

And the policeman need have an information that should use in a proportional way. So this information is connected with the trial. No.

So if it's not connected with the trial, it should be eliminated. That means that you have to do a procedure to respect the proportionality principle because it's not so easy to delete an evidence. Because as you know, when we discuss about digital evidence, there is a problem that you cannot do like in a physical way that you can take this piece of paper and say, okay, I will put it in a wardrobe and I live there.

Because there is a lot of copy. There is a lot of situation where you can have this. There is a lot of redundancy when you discuss about digital evidence.

So you have to keep this information as far from the legal case because obviously if this information goes to the legal case, you will destroy a part of the person that is not connected with your job. Your job is to see if he has committed the crime, not if he has made a bad action, absolutely, from an ethical perspective to his wife. But this is not the matter of the discussion.

Now for you, it seems really easy to see your face. Some of you say, oh, yes, yes. But when you are inside the story and you start to see the person, it's a little bit different because you make an evaluation.

It's normal to evaluate a person, okay? When you have information about him. Also in a culture where you are born, that is not the culture that technology is between us. Sorry if I come back to the beginning.

Technology is just a way to communicate. We are in a situation where technology is about us. So if I want to know who is Giuseppe Baciago, I start to see his social because it's a technology about us.

But when you do this, that for you is normal activity, but it is also for me, you are violating my privacy. You are authorizing to see my social profile. No, you can't do this.

Yes, it's illegal. Yes, absolutely. And this is absolutely legal.

I was saying it's absolutely legal to do this. It depends on what that proposes because you can do, for example, if we want to go a little bit on the social profile, I can tell you that if you want to know who I am, you can go to my LinkedIn. LinkedIn is public and you can have my information about me.

But if you want to hire me and you go to my social profile, do you know what is the consequences? Article eight of labor law, article eight of the law that was created in 1970, article number 300 of 1970, that is a crime from six months up to one year, because you cannot analyze the opinion of a person that you want to hire. This is a wonderful principle that is already in our constitution and is already in our law. So you cannot do that.

You cannot do that because you cannot analyze the opinion that is not connected to the work. The only things that you can analyze when you want to hire someone is the curriculum vitae, because it's something that I give to you. You cannot go to a social media.

But now for you, I see your face. Wow, it's not possible. Yeah, you can go.

Article eight of law 300 of 1970. It's a crime. It's a crime.

So it depends on what you want to know. If you want to, if just you are a student, you want to know who is your professor, is an agent that is admissible. But if you are my potential boss and you want to hire me, it's a crime.

So the action is the same going to my social profile, but the consequence is completely different. So why this is important to understand? Because the purpose of activity can be made for a, we could say innocent activity, or could be for an illegal activity. Do you understand? Okay, it's complex, but it's the truth.

And now there are a lot of AI software that promote these, because they make a screening of the candidates and they use also the social media to better improve this kind of profile of the person. And these are tools that committed crime. And when I explained to this engineer, remember the triangle, they say, why? It's so easy.

They put the information, the social is not my problem. You put the information, the social again, again, yes. You put the information, the social, but for what person do you put that information? For your friend or for your potential boss? Probably you put that information for your friend or for a potential girlfriend or boyfriend, but not for your boss.

So if we see the other side of the use of the social media, if we see the perspective of the user and not the perspective of the person that want to use the technology to have the technology about us, you can understand why we have a different perspective. And this is the law is not my opinion again about the article eight, but it's difficult. And probably in the next future, probably if we don't explain in a right way, these fundamental principle, we will have this kind of automation.

And what will be the consequences that we have an issue that is called social scoring, because the social scoring start with this, because if you have the possibility to control the social media to have an evaluation of a person, I can, I know, I cannot have my free life in the digital world because I have to control all my activity because I can be judged for my activity. What happened, for example, in the United States now or with Trump that want to analyze the social media to see if I, a communist or another person against the Trump idea. And so this is the problem that we have when we discuss about the proportionality principle, the proportionality start to see.

So when you do an activity, you have a responsibility. You have two different responsibilities. One is an ethical responsibility.

The ethical responsibility is it's a good point to see a profile of another person. I don't know. Please make a question from an ethical perspective, but this is a question for you.

Coming back to the legal point, when you do an investigation, that could be a nauseating investigation. That means open source intelligence, or there could be a investigation on a mobile. That is another kind of investigation.

Anyway, the proportionality principle is fundamental because it's true that probably you can win a case independently of violating my personal life. Coming back to the example of my client, that has this relation with another person that is not his wife. But then after this trial, if you don't use the proportionality principle, Giuseppe Racciago, trust me, it will happen, will start a civil action against you because you violate the privacy of this person.

So the person will be convicted for his crime, but this person can start an action against you because you violate his privacy. So that's why it's important the proportionality principle from a legal standpoint. So how can you respect this principle asking you always if this is an ethical activity? This is the general rule, but there is also a technical rule that is there is a lot of legal issue that give you the possibility to use information, but also you need to have the help of an attorney because obviously you cannot know all the information.

That's why we need these hybrid competence. For example, I mentioned the issue of the social media to be hired, but they can mention also the use of social media for analyzing the potential credit issue. So if you want to have some credit, a bank can analyze your social media.

Yes or not? Okay. No, but not always since 2023 because now we have a directive that is the CCD directive that imposed to the bank to avoid the use of social media, to analyze a profile, to see if it's a reliable person or not. And also, not social media, all the open source information.

So there is a directive and this directive is respected. No, the bank always use the social media. And there is again a lot of situation, a lot of contrast between the fact that a lot of credit is not given to the person because his social profile, not only the social media, I mean also all the information present in the web, because perhaps you had the problem, a legal problem in 2020 years before and they see on the web and say, okay, I cannot give you the credit because you added these legal issue.

So there is a lot of problem when we talk about scoring and the use of information. Everything is based on the proportionality principle. So please.

Oh, yes. Yes. Yes.

Oh, and just said that, uh, when investigating, uh, I'm thinking about those things. I'm thinking about in the crisis. So, uh, I'm analyzing the focus.

Yes. And I do find that, uh, another client has been committed. Different from the one that I've been hired to investigate from.

Uh, it is not that it was, uh, like, to say, to, uh, like, okay. Okay. You can absolutely, um, okay.

Depends of what is your role. If your role is a technical consultant. Because perhaps you are a technical consultant of the, um, investigated person in this case.

And you find that you are the technical consultant of a person that committed the fraud. And you find in his laptop that is also committed an homicide. So you start with the, with the fraud and then you, you discover that he's also committed an homicide.

You cannot do anything because we are not entitled. To start the criminal action as a citizen. Um, we can do, but we are, we don't have the duty in your case.

You cannot do because you, you are. If you are, if you are a technical consultant, thanks. If you're a technical consultant appointed by the job, the public prosecutor.

It depends in the sense that the prosecutor also cannot use the information. Um, that is not connected with the crime. He could.

He could ask to start another trial. Okay. So it's a delicate issue because.

Because sometimes it happens that what is the idea of the prosecutor? Then I asked her about the technical consultant, but they have to start with the prosecutor is to join together. The trial. So to find coming back to the example, a connection between the fraud and the homicide.

And if there is a connection, no problem. But in sometimes like this, there is no connection. So two different crime.

And so this is technically possible, but with some measure that should be guaranteed to the. Defend defendant, the indicted person, whatever the investigated person, just to be clear for you. Investigated indicted is the same.

That normally not happen. So you have to advise the person about the fact that you found another evidence. And these not always happen.

So what is the consequence for a technical consultant? You have to read very well. The appointment that the prosecutor give to you. Because there is a precise appointment.

And if the appointment is an open appointment and there is a precise rule to tell to him everything you have to do, but to tell you, you are not bounded like in the other case. So if you voluntarily want to do that, you can do that. So this is, this is a good question. 

Thanks. It's complex because it depends case by case, but in a general tense to answer properly is if you defend, obviously the investigated person, you are bounded. If you do that for the prosecutor, you can do that, but it's not so easy, especially for the technical consultant.

But when we talk about the proportionality, and this is a perfect example, is the best example that we can have, but we can also in a really easy way, talk about the fact that if you find, for example, other question that are potentially connected, but not relevant to give to the, you have to ask the prosecutor, if you are a technical consultant, the fact that you cannot give too many evidence that are not really relevant for the accused. The proportionality principle, and then I finished, it's also interesting because in the United States, in Italy, we don't have this culture. There is a rule, but I love this rule that says that you cannot give too many digital evidence to the, to the court.

Because what happened in the United States, that is the only place in the world where digital forensics is really respected differently from Italy, that sometimes the attorney of the, of the investigated person start to produce three terabytes of evidence to the court. And so the court need two years to analyze all this evidence. So there is a rule that says you have to respect the proportionality, but just to give to the judge the time to analyze the evidence.

So the proportionality is also this, but I have to tell you the truth, it's a principle that is a rule in the United States, in Italy, there is some cases where I saw this kind of strategy that is a crazy strategy because to create confusion. So to give too many evidence, just to create, to lose time and to arrive at the time limitation, that is the prescription time limitation, prescrizione, for the interest of the defendant. And this is not obviously a good strategy in the US is absolutely forbidden in, in Italy. 

No. Can I go? Please interrupt me if you have any questions. This is another slide that is important.

The categories of digital evidence is stupid. I admit, I have to admit that this is a stupid definition made by Stephen Mason, but even if it's stupid, it's important because you have to consider that it's not so normal to have evidence created by a man. And you can divide into category human to human or human to PC.

So human to human is an email human to PC is a, when I, when I, when I make a word document, but also created by the computer or by the machine, whatever. It's important because it's the base of digital forensics. The problem of digital forensics is normally not only to find like CSI, the smoking gun in the laptop of the person, but also to demonstrate that the machine work.

Well, we are work. We, the complexity. I have also, if you're interested in the paper, perhaps I can put as additional material, obviously not, not something that you can, you, you have to read that for the exam, but to explain the complexity of the liability in a digital forensics world, in the sense that when you are discussing about, for example, there is Polytechnic of Turin and Polytechnic of Milan that has a wonderful project of automated vehicle.

So the idea to have this project, but in a really good level, not Tesla, not level two, but level three or level four. So really automated vehicle. In this situation, you have a manufacturer that produced the vehicle.

Then you have a NAI that is a provider that could be managed by.




Company, but also can be, for example, China and there is a, it exists, the Turkish company that work in the polytechnic of Turin, that produce a wonderful tool of AI. Then there is a lot of other provider. Do you remember when I, for the person that frequent, that did the cyber security law courses, the importance of supply chain.

So there is a lot of provider that give services connected to the AI services that give the possibility to the car to go in an autonomously way. So all these provider produce evidence. So the role of the digital forensics expert is not only to find the criminal, but to find, to demonstrate that you have the evidence to attribute a liability when happen an accident, because if it happens an accident with this autonomous vehicle, you need to know who is the guy that make a mistake in all these chain of provider.

And this is the complexity of evidence created by, not by a man, but by the computer that basically is log. And that's why I really appreciate the EIACT, when the EIACT explain that it's fundamental for all the AI provider to have a clear retention of log, because the problem is sometimes it happens an accident and you just need the one week of log, but it could happen. And I tell you for sure, it happens a lot of time that you need six months or perhaps more than six months because perhaps you have to figure out an attack that happened two years before.

And then there is this attack that happened the first time two years before, but then happens a lot of other activity that are connected and you have to make a reconstruction of all the event that are not connected with an evidence created by a man. So an email or a photo that is in your mobile phone, but all the system, and this is the future for me of digital forensics. I hope that this is clear because it's really important.

The connection of all the player that work in a complex system that is connected with the digital issue. Then there is the category created both by a man and the computer, but this is a category that obviously it's, if you have to learn, just give you my idea. I think that there is, this for me, even if it's the definition of Stephen Mason that is an expert of digital evidence, I think that it's more similar to the first one.

So the category of human to human or human to PC, my view. But this is just obviously that what is the categories in electronic spreadsheet where data is entered by the human while the computer works out the result. But again, it's not important.

What is digital forensics? This is definition that is not important like digital evidence because you have the definition also by Professor Azzeni. And I'm quite sure that you know very well, but I will, I like to repeat in a traditional sense is get hold of evidence without modifying the IT system in which that evidence is found, ensure that the evidence acquired in another medium is identical to the original, analyze data without modifying it. What are the big five of digital forensics from the Council of Europe? Again, important, but not fundamental.

Probably will not be, you don't have a specific exam, a question to do during the exam, but it's something that it's absolutely useful for you because it's also usable also when you have the open question and the big five, it's important. That is data integrity. I don't have to explain what is that integrity.

Chain of custody, chain of custody is another point that is absolutely well explained by Professor Azzeni. So I don't have to go into this kind of issue, but if you have any question, I'm totally available to speak about the chain of custody. Specialist support.

So it's important to have a digital forensics expert. Training, the first response must be appropriately trained because the problem is that sometimes when you need to preserve an evidence, the real issue is who is the person that have the first approach to this evidence? Because not all the citizens are digital forensics experts. They don't know what is a bitstream image.

They don't know what is a right blocker or whatever. And sometimes it happens that they make some mess and they make an alteration of the evidence. And this is why it's important to make appropriate training to all the person, especially in a company.

Some bank fortunately did do, sorry, a training on digital forensics, a basic training of what are the things that they don't have to do when happen in an incident, an IT incident, or when you have to preserve an evidence, a digital evidence. And then legality, the person and agency in charge of the case are responsible for ensuring that the law and the above list and principle are there too. So we can go a little bit in a digital investigation procedure, and then we will stop.

I want to quote two important standard that you have to consider in the next future. If you want to be certified digital forensic, the two standard are obviously NIST and ISO 27037. So I think that for the crazy guy or girl that want to become and start this kind of activity in the future, the idea to be certified is really important.

And we are living in a world where the certification is really important. The standard is a way to communicate each other because we have seen that the law, the international law are not enough and can create, especially now that there is a lot of geopolitical problem. So if we started to see that the act cannot be applicable for the company in US and then China want to use its regulation and so on.

So the only way to communicate between another country is a standard that is the soft law because a standard is not a law, but it's something that could be applied. So that's why NIST in United States specifically and ISO specifically in the European context is the good way to go on. So this principle is just something that it's really easy.

So I don't want, I don't have the time if you want to go in depth, I'm available to, especially to give you more information about the ISO 27037, but so also for the matter of exam, you don't have to, apart from the fact that this is a information that are general information fundamental for digital forensics, but obviously we will not go in depth on this tool and this standard, but I want to know and I want to know that you are, that you have the knowledge of this. So probably you can have a question about what are the most important standard on in the digital forensics world. So NIST and ISO.

More than happy to have other idea from you from other standard, I think that these are the two most important. So coming back to the NIST standard is, obviously the principle is the collections, is examination, analyzing and reporting. The rule that, you know, are the pillar of the digital forensics, the phase of the collection.

And so the idea to obviously gather the relevant data, maintaining the forensic soundness. Examination, that is extract and assess information from collected data. Analysis, that is interpret findings to draw a conclusion about the incident and reporting that is document results with clear chain of custody and integrity verification.

The reporting is really important part, especially in the NIST standard because the presentation of the evidence in any field in the court, and this is will be your job, but also in a company in the corporate forensic side, it's important. Sorry, if I repeated this concept about this important, really important. So what are the core technical control? From one side, there is the live system consideration.

So imaging live system introduce validation challenges continuous changes. So the life forensics issue, it's really, really important. Chain of custody require meticulous logging, hardware identifier, forensics tool, and this kind of stuff you will probably see with Professor Azzeni, but also we will see together.

Just to give you an highlights of this information, bitstream imaging, that everybody of you knows what is bitstream imaging. If not, Professor Azzeni will explain. If you have any doubt, I can be the person, but we don't have, we need to work together without any, I don't have to go in the field of Professor Azzeni, just not to create confusion to you.

Write blocker, that is important, that is an hardware or software that prevents writing to the original media, and obviously the cryptographic hashing. These are the pillar for the NIST certification. When we go to the media sanitization as a risk management, what is the other principle of NIST? The other principle of NIST that is really interesting, and you cannot see this kind of approach in the ISO system, is the risk management activity.

Because when you have to do an activity on a digital forensics, you always, I had the experience with my technical expert, you have always to make decision that are not understandable from normally for a lawyer or for the legal part, but you have to make decision because for example, you have to analyze a thousand of data and you have to decide the criteria that avoid the fact that you can take two years to do this, also because basically the judge said, says in the court situation, you have two weeks to do this kind of analysis, and you cannot have the time to do this kind of activity in two weeks, at least you need three months. And then there is obviously, they ask more time and then you can ask also postponement when you are not able. But when you have the only problem of the system, apart from the digital forensics expert, is the time and the goal.

But to reach the goal in a short time, you have to make decision and you have to make a risk management approach that I explained in the other course. So you have to evaluate what are the impact and the probability to do, to take a risk, to do the right job. So you have to analyze this.

And this is the approach that is well explained in the NIST protocol, in the NIST standard, rather than the 2701. So we will see now is 10.50. We don't have the time to go to the ISO standard. We don't have so many slides, but we have at least one hour to finish this part.

So I think that we can finish tomorrow so I can respect the fact that you can refresh your brain 10 minutes before the other lesson. We will see next Friday. Bye-bye.

