Okay, I think we can start. Welcome back for the few brave here after the Easter holiday and, well, hope you enjoy your time, had time to, well, focus, relax, enjoy during this period without lesson. Okay, well, not an overwhelmingly enthusiastical answer, I guess, but, well, okay, that's fine.

For me, the same, if I can share my, if I can show some anxiety and share my holiday of work in order to prepare lesson and stuff like that. Among the other stuff, I also thought on the lab, and so I share some further ideas. Well, I put a link on the portal, maybe I can show you, it's just a link to a Google Spreadsheet in order to let you fill in the group allocation. You can find it here, the portal, that's it. It's just a very, I think I can open as well, of course, or not, yes. It's only a very simple spreadsheet where you can find a group number that I suggest to use just the row number in order to be simple.

It's, it's, it's, it's, it does not have any meaningful content. If you want, this is optional. If you think this is completely, well, unaffecting any, any specific content, technical content, but if you want, you can give a group name to your name. And then the list of members that should range from four to six to each, to each, to each group group. So the, the, the request here is just to, to fill in according among yourself before, oh, Wednesday, when we will run the, the lab with, with your name. So we, we, we will start the lab having, hopefully the, the groups in place. So, and that's, that's the first stuff.

Well, maybe I leave you some, some means now, if you want to start to fill it in, just to see there are no particular issue in, in filling it. So if you want, you can start also from home, of course, if you already, this is also for me, in order to understand if some of you, some of you already thought about group members or stuff like that, or if I need some clarification, let's say, in order to, to, well, correctly shape, to correctly drive the, the group, the group allocation. In my, in my, in my view, this is pretty much strike award, apart the fact that, well, this is another check that I ask this, this number, this range for each, for each group from four to six.

Well, you can, you can, you can put both of them, the best, from home, there is a request, what we should put there, name or student ID. I, I, well, I would prefer the, both of them, in order to easily find out who is there. And I can, with, with, with, with the student ID, I can immediately find out the, the student inside the database in order to, to perform some check. But, uh, but, uh, I prefer the name, in order to understand who is the, the, the, the member of a group. So, if you put both of them, like in the, oh, well, similarly to, to what appear to the email, when you send email, with Polito, with Polito email system that you have, you know, in normal setup, name, surname, and S and student ID.

Okay, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's fine for me. Yep. Really? You can, uh, you are an editor, so you can change, maybe, I don't know why. Just, uh, what, what? Okay, no, it seems, uh, it seems, uh, I just tried, and I can put, uh, well, maybe, I don't know why, on the phone, this is the, the setup. Okay, meanwhile, while you are trying to, to set up your membership, um, of course, well, I think, uh, if you, well, normal suggestion, since maybe at the moment, many of you are trying to, to fill, uh, a group, uh, a group, uh, I would suggest to check if, uh, you can go, you can try that some cleaver allocation.

I don't think will be an overwhelmingly complex problem. You can see in real time when someone else is, uh, walking on, uh, on a cell, so you can choose another one, as many of you, I can see, are doing, since we are not so many. I, I, I don't think, uh, but this is something that I'd like to check right now, that, uh, this, uh, creates some, uh, concurrency problems, but let's see. It seems, uh, it's working, then finally you can check. Meanwhile, um, I spent some more words on, on this. Uh, well, you will have, uh, on the lab, uh, a kind of, uh, a set of, uh, tasks, uh, that can be theoretical and practical, considering the, the whole amount of, uh, of the four labs.

Um, and, uh, in, with your group, you will produce, uh, a kind of, uh, report describing the, your, your, your approach, your solution, your consideration, your critical analysis on, uh, on the, on the tasks proposed by, by the lab. And, uh, you should send, at the, at the end, you can use, again, uh, from, uh, from the portal, the normal, the normal, uh, functionality that are, that are provided by our, by our, by our portal. So you can, uh, upload the, with your report and possibly material, if you have a supplementary material to, uh, to, to put there, thanks to the elaborated choices where you can upload, uh, an archive with, uh, with all, uh, with all your material, with the, the group, uh, ID, according to the group number here, the final group number that you will have there, in order to, to check, to, to, to, to have clear the correspondence, uh, between, uh, your, your work and, uh, and the content.

Uh, well, I will ask two deliverables for each lab, one, at the end of, uh, the lab itself, at the end of the three hour lab, uh, which is a kind of, uh, uh, which is a kind of, uh, initial draft that, uh, allow me to understand, uh, what's your, well, amount of work, um, after the three hours. And, uh, uh, in, uh, in the course of, uh, of the next week, you can upload, also, an, uh, updated and more sophisticated, elaborated, uh, edited version, if you want to add or improve something, uh, after some reflection for the investigation and, and so on. So both of them will be part of, uh, of the evaluation. You should send one, two, in fact, report for each lab, for each group. Okay? So each group should send just one deliverable. But, uh, I, I also, uh, uh, uh, put inside the, uh, as part of your deliverable, there is also, uh, uh, an evaluation of your work, a self-evaluation that, in which you state the, the, to what, the, the amount of contribution to, to, to the different parts of, uh, of the lab, of the tasks in, uh, in the lab for each group.

So which, uh, men, for each member, I mean, so which member should, uh, state, um, as a kind of, uh, self-evaluation, the, the amount of work to which task, uh, contributed more in, according to what aspect. And I appreciate it for sure. I'm planning to provide a kind of, uh, template in order to, to make more clear dimensions that, uh, are worth evaluation. I think, for example, uh, understanding and usage of, uh, tools, uh, if, uh, applicable, of course, when those are used, um, uh, report contribution. So the presentation contribution of, uh, of, of the report, uh, the, um, also kind of, uh, uh, soft skills like, uh, crew, how creative, how much creative has been the, the contribution.

And all of them, uh, I, I expect for this kind of, uh, dimensions, uh, a kind of quantitative evaluation, for example, like low, medium, or, uh, uh, not so much, uh, a lot, uh, does not matter very much, probably will be, uh, a five, a five grade scale. And, and, uh, a description that, uh, motivates this kind of, uh, of evaluation. And also as a self, uh, as a self in terms of group self evaluation, also a kind of overall evaluation stating all the different aspects and who inside the group contribute more on this, on that, and so on, in order to have, uh, a kind of honest, in order to have a kind of, uh, uh, 100% of contribution, let me say, and, uh, understand more or less for many aspects what, uh, the amount of contribution of each one. I don't want that, uh, well, self evaluation is of course subjective and this may drive to, to wrong evaluation in terms of, uh, excessively positive or excessively negative as well. So if you provide a kind of average, that's my thought, at least, on the whole member contribution, this should be more balanced, I, I, I think.

But we will see. This is, uh, this is, uh, an experiment that I like to run in order to try to involve in, in the process as much as possible. Also the students. Okay. Okay. I see. I guess these are kind of placeholder that will be completed. That's fine. Okay. I think that it seems to me that, uh, is working here or from home questions, uh, um, on that seems, uh, pretty much set for work, this kind of process. Fine. Perfect. Okay. Okay. So we can get back back to our technical topics. Okay. Last, uh, last time we, we were discussing about, uh, well, kind of overall description about the, um, setup of, uh, of a forensic lab. And this was a kind of, uh, uh, focus in order to understand a lot of, uh, uh, stuff on, on the approach, on the requirements, uh, on the faculties that might run behind the scene. And that, uh, forensic investigators need to be aware. We were not at all exhausted, considering all the aspects, the mathematical science,ización, and, um, and control results. And that, uh, that was.

So, um, it, uh, was actually been. Particle was not, like, um, in one of the things that we anak virtual many years was built by um, back in at the last hole was a, uh, which, uh, was the most conventional way aroundth voyhoff, and the first time for understanding how to try to. So how to appropriate the sandbox. So residening our ability to get to privacy in a data realm rather than having to understand the old time? Because how to approach. So we will do abusively, um, uh, or agist list. So it's actually an telecom blog startquCamry and this is the same headline of some plan for to understand how to approach a problem considering many different aspects and and the relationships between different aspects, and also in particular how information, how main interaction may happen behind the scenes that a normal user and user perspective cannot understand a lot, while a forensic investigator should completely understand on a specific case, and understand in terms of overall behavior before approaching a case, meaning should be aware of how many aspects should be documented and investigated, and should start to go deeper into understanding of a specific topic involved in a specific investigation, since it's impossible to understand all the details in abstract before, in my opinion, they are really needed in some specific case, a kind of posture, a mental posture is, okay, I need to go into more detailed understanding of the different domains, like file system, memory, cloud, etc., that are involved in the specific case that I'm starting to dig into, to investigate. This is a kind of honest and needed, in my opinion, approach in order to perform a successful forensic analysis. And as I said, there are multiple elements that should be understood in general terms. Probably, from a historical perspective, the interaction with the storage, with the file system is an ongoing, still evolving, but the most uncertain one in the field of digital forensics. So, we are going to approach and discuss something about that. We have, well, pretty important aspects inside this field. For example, first, we already started to talk about that last time.

We already mentioned that in many cases. We need to understand that what the end user normally interact to in terms of data is absolutely a very small part of the iceberg of the old data that are operating system, the digital device, even more extensive than what under control of an operating system manages. Just as some key points, but not exhaustive at all, just in order to give a first glimpse of the field, we might have the clear understanding that even if, from an end user perspective, there is no such data and information we are looking for. If we go behind the logical metaphor of files presented by the operating system, we might find a lot. We might find data that are there, but the operating system does not present because they are marked as deleted.

So, this is a historical, very common case that led to a lot of information leakage from military, with sensitive, confidential, top-secret information inside the used , in strawberry wiser, because the hardwood, open, and open- gel hearts and any special 하루 of the areas that are connected to a different musical model. We Ini guys would think that we would need a lot of information. I find aini family which is yes, that is important in the existence of how, in a internal card, to do aрейth size or understanding degree or Taycan, and use a st. deleted, but just marked as that on an old-fashioned magnetic hard drive, etc. And this is a simple part of the field. We have a more subtle one. We have, for example, the concept of the slack space, which is more subtle.

Since an end user, an unaware end user, might be tempted to think that the space on the hard drive is completely allocated by a sequence of bytes or even bits. While this is not the case, well, depending on the specific storage, we have a different unit of allocation, different way to identify part of the storage, but in general we have a minimum unit of a location that depends on the configuration, on the device, on the operating system, and this difference between the actual, the real atomic unit, which is a bit in the essence, that we can manage from a computer science perspective, and the unit that our interface is providing has, that might be, for example, I don't know, 512 bytes, 4 kilobytes, as I said, depending.

We write a bunch of data, and some of them, and this might lead to unused space inside this discrepancy between the logical unit presented by the operating system and the real atomic unit used on the storage, that allow, for example, that the operating system, say, this logical unit is written, while, for example, for example, with a data of 200 bytes, but in reality the rest of an unused space inside the logical unit evaluation still contains another previously there information that can be, with sophisticated enough instrument tools, can be retrieved as well, for example.

And, well, file system forensics is a pretty large field, a subtle one, but, and also some more obvious one, like, for example, this involves the understanding of how an operating system or an application works, in order to understand what kind of data and where this data have been placed inside the system. And you have a sample here when I talk about registry analysis, OS configuration analysis, in which we can find out the shape of the system, of the operating system, but also of the applications, in order to understand the usage of app, of operating system, of the device, the intent of the usage, according to the configuration, according to what we can find, according to the reconstruction of the modifications, the concept of the data.

So, what are the implications on this kind of data? Well, this kind of data, we may talk about meta data, that are data about data, not usually or very partially manipulated by end-user, but instead results most of the time by automatic work for many different purposes of the application and of the operating system. And in order to interact with this kind of concept, we have a lot of nice tools. From a didactical educational perspective, I think low-level ones are the best in order to see details and relevant subtleties of interaction. I mentioned here, for example, common line tools like STAT, which is normally present in a Linux, in any Linux distribution that allow to understand a lot of statistics, a lot of metadata about specific files. And this is normal system utility. We may, when we work, what I mean with normal system, I mean it uses the metaphor provided by the operating system layer, the file metaphor, the file system mediation to access the information. We may have more in-depth tools that are loved by digital forensic analysts, like for example, E-STAT, which is a kind of improved forensically speaking version version to access data that interact directly to the underlying structure of a, for example, block device. We've seen that we may have many different kinds of files, and with this kind of tool for forensic analysis, which is a part of another very, very loud and handsome tool for forensic analysis, which is Lloyd Kit, that provides a lot of interesting tools to play with the operating system. And I can, since we have also iLevel, what I mean by iLevel, I usually mean with a visual, easily, user-friendly interface that can use to instruct your analysis. So if you are a human that is performing an analysis, this kind of interface, the normal point and click with visual, graphical output, might be nice. And for example, we have Autopsy, which is a nice tool to play, a kind of framework that, for example, uses a lot of these Lloyd Kit underlying tools. And so, in many cases, we have both iLevel as an interface, and at the same time, a low-level toolset that can be invoked by by the higher-level interface. This is, for example, the case of Autopsy. And, well, another nice point of iLevel tool, if you are performing a real investigation, is the fact that they can put together all the different analyses in one single place, provide many different visually correlated output, help for a single timeline reconstruction from different evidence sources, etc. So, a kind of aggregation.

So, they might, from an educational perspective, be very useful. Autopsy, well, is a nice tool, not very, very used in real investigation, because, well, it's a nice tool, a lot of, has a lot of functionality, but it's not very, very, even if it has many optimizations, many attempts to speed up the process, is not as fast as the top quality, the most performing, let's say, at least, the tools used for a digital investigation. And the performance side is an important one. And, well, sometimes, with Autopsy, you can experience some bug and non-perfect behavior that is not very, well, desirable in an investigation. So, you need to shape it properly to be sure that it works well.

So, yeah. But, from an educational perspective, it's a nice tool in order to see what, how, how appear, how is, the run of a forensic investigation, in particular, with file system aspects that I like the most, probably. Well, I, as I told a minute ago, there are a lot of data that are behind the scenes that an end-user will not interact to, or very partially interact to when they use any digital device, basically. Well, we have here the concept of metadata, which is a very pervasive concept. Metadata are just, in the most broad term, data, about data, where the data, the metadata, are kind of categorization, classification, details on the, let's say, end-user data, that might vary depending on, on the specific context. End-user data might be, for example, well, the Excel, the Google spreadsheet file that we are filling in order to have the allocation for the lab, while, for example, metadata might be the creation time of the Google spreadsheet.

For example, we have, then, metadata related to specific application. I put here some examples, like, when you have a Word file in the .x format, you have XML, a lot of metadata in XML format. The same for open document format, which is instead from open office or liberal office. We have, and this is incredibly, incredibly relevant for, for investigation, the exit, the exit format, which is to convey the information about media, images in particular, that you can see them like a set of tags that categorize an image. And we will have some more words on that. Some of them are, some of the uses of this kind of information are obvious, and some of them instead are subtle, but still very relevant in an investigation. And, well, in general, as you may see, this, the metadata might have multiple, multiple possible usage in order to, well, they are useful in normal use of a, of a device, of a digital device, and enriching the information about file, about data, user and user data, in order to optimize the access, for example, in order to find out specific information, in order to recover damaged information. Also, at file system level, we have metadata provided and used by the file system itself, not only application, also the operating system inside the file system metaphor has metadata about file, like very, very easily, the creation time, the size of the file, etc. And, well, important remark, pretty obvious, but useful to remember, they are not trusted by definition, meaning that, okay, and user will not interact with them. So, if we are approaching an investigation on a kind of unaware user, we might confidently consider that the data might be reliable, the metadata might be reliable. But, in general, we may encounter wrong after some damage, this may happen in specific cases, or missing metadata. We may, and, for example, what I mean by missing metadata, EXIF is a, EXIF is a, is a standard for images, and, well, many formats of images has EXIF, EXIF information inside. But, for example, some application, particularly related to interaction with other users, like social network, like or messaging application manipulates this kind of data. When I send an image on a, when I put an image on a, on a social media, or I send through an app like WhatsApp, or Signal, or whatever, or Telegram, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. This kind of originally present metadata, from inside the EXIF format, are manipulated and no longer adherent to the original ones.

And, well, this is an example in which metadata can be manipulated, not by a willing malicious user, but by the normal behavior of an application. That is something that I need to know in order to, to, to correctly investigate on a, on a specific, correctly analyze a set of, of information. And, of course, we can also have in mind the malicious behavior of skilled users that can manipulate this kind of data. Metadata are just information put there in a standard way, of course, because they need to be manipulated by normal behavior of, of applications. So they are standard, they are accessible, they are known, the meaning of values, and the meaning of different metadata, specific metadata is known. So anyone that has access, privileged enough access to a, to a device can manipulate them as, at will, modifying everything.

So, we should not go on the opposite side, which is by far not true, about Octave. So I cannot relay on metadata when I'm doing my investigation. Of course not. The point is more subtle. I need to correlate metadata coming from different sources in order to find out inconsistencies. and avoid errors provoked by, well, by accidental damage or by willing, malicious behavior of the suspect. Okay, so the interesting part is the correlation of data from different sources, and for doing that, that I need to understand, as an investigator, what is the kind of data they can expect from a specific source, and I should know what kind of application manipulate that evidence, in order to understand, for example, the case of exif file, what kind of data can be the original one, or what kind are manipulated during the unexchange, for example.

So, yeah, again, the exif file, if I send the same image on a WhatsApp message, or if I send it by email, the kind of message app, like WhatsApp manipulates, the exif file changes a lot of them, while sending the image through a normal email or not manipulate and preserve the original ones. So this kind of history of the evidences should be very well known when I investigate, when I start to access Gator and correlate my metadata. And here are some examples of metadata, just in order to understand what we are talking about.

As I said, the file system is an enormous source of metadata about files, like I can find it in different shape, in different format, depending on the operating system. Well, depending more on the file system type. But, in general, attributes like file name, data units allocated, the size of the file, are, well, present in any file system type. And then, according, depending on the file system, I may have a pretty huge degree of variability. And then I can have recovery data. I may have different shapes about how the data units are identity of belonging to a specific file are correlated and identified, how many and what type of timestamps for a file I may have, what kind of access, and this can vary a lot from nothing at all, like in the FAT file system, to detailed access control list in a modern file system type, or in the medium, as a medium, as a medium possibility, the access control of file system in Unix, in Unix-like operating system, like read, write, and execute for three categories of users, the owner, the group, and the rest of the world.

Okay, so we have a huge amount of possibilities that may vary depending on the file specific file system. We have metadata at level of application. Here you have an example of the open document format, which is used by, which is, which has been developed many years ago, by the open office consulting organization, and has the format of an XML dupling core kind of target metadata, in which you can, well, nice properties open, license-free, so anyone can see understand, use, extend, etc., and the format is something like that. You have, along with the data, the content of a document, for example, this kind of data, like the title, description of the subject, who is the creator. We have, well, this is, I think, relevant, creation data. Why is relevant? Because this kind of metadata, the creation data, is pretty common on many different metadata formats, and this is, note, different from the timestamps, the metadata inside the file system. Okay, so this means that in case of manipulation or not congruent information, or, well, in case of possible alteration of some information, this is a source of possible correlation. If you, for example, if you, for example, have a claim in the creation time at file system level and a different creation time inside the metadata of an application, this is something that can raise a flag to investigate more.

Okay, this is a simple example of correlation and how can be used for this kind of metadata. And, well, when you have an, for example, .odt document, what you have in reality, and the same is for the new .ex format, you have a compressed archive in reality. If you want, you can use your zip utility and decompress it. Again, this is something interesting because, for example, after an investigation, after the attempt to recover a deleted file on a file system, you might result in a set of files, like, for example, like, for example, metadoc XML, or, and text, a text file, a textual, enriched textual file, and so on. This might be the recovery of, for example, ODF file that might, some tool that try to recover files, just identify some part of the original archive, and recover the part of that, like, for example, the meta.xml file. If you recover a meta.xml file, it's possible that you have a document still there that can be, that can be found. Okay, and, well, if you want to try, you can unzip this kind of an ODF, an ODT, or a doc.x file, and decompress, extract it in a small set of files, composed by metadata once, and the end-user content. Again, this is something that is useful to know when you investigate an image of an hard drive. Another example of metadata, for example, the exif file format, exif, which is, we have the meaning of the acronym exchangeable image file, is a standard used by many image formats in order to put in the information on about the image. You have some examples here, for example, coming from an old photo camera, you may see, you have the resolution, vertical, horizontal, horizontal, some data about the unit, this means 300 points per inch, so 300 GPR, normal standard to identify resolution, software version, exit version, by the way, last year, a new, completely new, but retro-compatible version of exif format has been emitted, the 3.0 version, with some more attributes, metadata.

So, the daytime original, a nice one, what, well, what do you think, easy, I just put some really present information there, in that camera, that was a photo camera, that I used some years ago, there is something that is very relevant nowadays, but was missing at the time, what do you think is this? Do you have an idea? For our forensic analysis is very relevant nowadays, which is missing here, because this is a pretty old picture, but instead nowadays is, well, if you want, always present when you take a picture.

Do you have a picture? Exactly. Do you have, nowadays, any, any tool capable to, to, to take a picture as a GPS sensor inside? So, if you want, which is useful for, well, social media interaction, and a proper track of all your movement, put your, put a GPS track in your, in your metadata, and always know where the picture has been taken, okay? And this is very, very commonly used and important. And, well, EXIF, I, well, we may discuss a lot, the, the possible implication of the EXIF metadata for, for a, for a digital investigation. I just put here some, some, some ideas of, about how different metadata can be used in a, in an investigation. We have some, some, pretty obvious one, to understand the time and the space of, of, of, of an evidence, okay? And we have multiple, multiple information from a temporal perspective, like the, the, the, the very moment in which you, in which you take a picture, or create an image, maybe, not by taking a picture, but with different meaning. When, in this case, we have, for example, the date time digitized, which is when data was written, was written, and information about the UTC offset, in order to avoid, uh, problems, in, uh, of being in different time zone, but even more subtly, in, uh, in a special condition, like, for example, when, uh, in a, in a country, like in Italy happened, we are in the time in which we have the switch of our, like we have, uh, a few, two weeks, a few weeks ago, which if we do not have a mean to identify, maybe, uh, some, uh, some, uh, some of you noted, uh, a nice, uh, a nice spot in order to perform, uh, crime of, uh, bad action, uh, if, uh, a system is not properly configured, and they, and then the log identify the time of, uh, of, uh, of action. So we have proper control measures, uh, in order to, to avoid that.

So even if the hour for some time is, uh, is the same, or on the contrary, there is a missing hour, thanks to the UTC offset from, uh, from Greenwich time, we always have the possibility to understand to identify a specific time, a specific instance of time without ambiguity. So we have metadata, of course, to understand the temporal, the temporal, uh, part, the spatial part. Also interesting, we, well, of course, we have the position in terms of, uh, uh, x and y axis, but also interestingly, GPS, we allow us to understand altitude and speed, which is, again, something that might be useful to reconstruct the action at a specific time, and, uh, to substantiate or deny an alibi or, or any claim from, uh, a suspect, the, well, if I'm in a running car or in an office, uh, of course, if, uh, like, if I claim to be, that I was in an office and, uh, my, my smartphone registered a speed at the same time of, uh, I don't know, 70 kilometers per hour, this is something that, uh, do not correlate very much well.

Or the altitude is the same. Since I also have the z axis, my claim can be confused or, or supported if I'm at the ground level or instead on the top of a skyscraper. And again, we, as you may see, we are going in a more subtle aspect, considering altitude and speed than just, uh, well, a specific point in the space. We have even more subtle information that can come from exit data. Like, for example, I can capture parameters that are specific to a device, like, for example, the, the noise posture of a sensor, of a, of a, of a graphic of a visual sensor in order to take picture, in order to correct the kind of, the, the, digitally, the noise that, uh, physically the, the sensor has. And this might be very specific to a, to a specific model. So if I manipulate, uh, an image in order to appear a, of a different model, of a different device, again, this is something that might be refused by proper correlation of, uh, of data.

Not only obvious operating system, upper version used, but, uh, also more subtle details, like, uh, lens model correlation with the noise reduction approach, uh, of the graphical, nice noise reduction approach, etc. Also, some, uh, some, uh, some, uh, information describe, uh, allow to understand the quality of, uh, of an image, or the lightness of an image, the, the color characteristics of an image. And this, again, might introduce a discrepancy if the characteristic of the image does not fit with the image that I seen. This may indicate a manipulation of the image itself, like, for example, a crop of the, of an image, in order to leave out some aspects, some compromising aspect of an image, or maybe, uh, the fact, the, the, the inconsistencies between the lightness, the, I don't know, iso-set, the diaphragm opening, how much is open, in respect of, uh, the lightness of the scene, again, can introduce, uh, inconsistencies, the, the, the, the focal length, or the presence or not of the flash, etc., we may have a huge amount of, uh, of information that might be analyzed and, uh, and correlated. And, well, also, the, the, the exit, uh, format, uh, allow to, uh, to keep track of the processing story of the image, since there's a lot of metadata, we may add, leave the original one untouched, and, and introduce, uh, for the one, according to the standard, we have a lot. And so, some of them allow also to, um, to understand, if properly set up, the, the, the editing history of the, of the image. Again, this might, uh, substantiate or refuse some claim or, uh, highlight inconsistencies. For example, if, uh, I find out, uh, a manipulation, uh, modification from Lightroom, for example, but, uh, in a specific office, no one has licensed or used Lightroom for editing, for major editing, this might introduce an inconsistency. Okay? Again, subtleties that might rise flag that can be investigated further. And, well, and, uh, I already mentioned the fact that some specific, uh, uh, indicators of the inner behavior of the device, like the, the, the sensor noise pattern to, to cope with the noise at image level, may allow inconsistencies in a very subtle level. And I just practiced on ExitFer, not because it's the only meta, possible metadata, but because it's a nice sample of how many sources of information we might might find we might have to investigate and correlate from the metadata from even just one, even if notable one, kind of possible metadata. And, well, by the way, in practical terms, if you want to, to find out ExitFer information of ExitFer metadata, you have, uh, I can, I, well, I advise you this kind of nice tool, coming to a practical, uh, suggestion, which is ExitFer tool. Basically, usage is very straightforward, is, uh, is a, um, is a, is a per-developed tool, uh, in which you basically just ask for a specific file that you want to, in, to extract, see the tool. And, uh, well, as I said, metadata cannot be trust by definition. This is an obvious sample. If you want, with ExitFer tool, you can also manipulate and modify the, the metadata, setting a, a new, a new one. And, uh, well, ExitFer tool is a notable one, because it started to, to interact with ExitFer format, but then evolved to support, interact, edit, metadata, of a pretty big amount of different, of different files. I think that is still there, the number of support, the, the, the support format, yes. And, uh, well, this is just to show you how many different formats you can investigate with ExitFer tool, which is a very common instrument for, for investigation. Okay. And, well, you can use it on, uh, on any file if you want. Of course, depending on the type you have, uh, more or less, uh, success in, um, in doing that. Okay. Well, I can, uh, I can, uh, I have ExitFer tool here. Yes. If you run it on, uh, open, what do I mean now? If you run it on a rich tool, on a rich format, you have a lot of information. If you run it on a, on a simple text file, what do you think? I will result in something or nothing? Not so much in general, but still ExitFer tool is nice providing me metadata at file system level. Okay. Even a text file that by itself is a format without, without any metadata, still I have information at file system level. Okay.

Instead, oh, let me see if I can, uh, nice document. I'm going to create very quickly a nice document. here, here, with my library office. I'm going to save it, uh, in, home, where I, where I am here, here, well, not a very nice name, but... Okay. Let's see. I did write anything, but still I have a pretty large set of information here. I still have information at file system level, but also some specific ODF metadata information that might be a source of evidences like a version of of the library office operating system, not so bad. Okay. And thanks to ExitF tool, I can investigate, I can query a large amount of, uh, of, uh, different file types. And yeah, just to frame possible contribution of ExitF metadata. Just to kind of, uh, digest what we discussed. This might be helpful to timeline reconstruction, of course, to find out when action has been performed and to attribution and identity.

In the previous ExitF command, well, I did not set, uh, me as an author, as an author of, uh, of the document, but in many times you have also author as metadata of, uh, of, uh, of, uh, of a file. Oh, and sometimes this might be even more relevant because you might have a specific license so your organization name is fixed and you cannot change by using specific organization tools. You, um, I just created the file so I do not have any history. I did not set a version of my document, but I can activate the versioning of my document and then have information on the revisions of my document that may identify when I work on that. And if it's reasonable that I work on that as an author of, uh, uh, of a document correlating with, uh, with other sources, geolocation, we already mentioned it, the identification of this specific device of, uh, uh, of a tool like the photorespoms non-uniformity uniformity for the noise. And of course, cross source correlation is another interesting point in order to check if the time of an action is corroborated by the times of other actions, by other timestamps that came from different sources. And also the timeline reconstruction, a specific aspect of that might be related to the usage of that image. Like for example, I mentioned here the integrity of the EXIF, something that I already mentioned. Some applications modify the EXIF information, while some other do not modify that. Email do not modify, WhatsApp modify, Instagram modify, well, the storage, the save on a pendrive do not modify, etc., etc. Okay, so I should know, I can know, looking at the EXIF, some information about the kind of application that modified that that evidence. Okay, so a pretty huge amount. And of course, it's good to remember that those are just samples of application level metadata, because I may have, well, Microsoft Office format, PDF metadata. Also, maybe this is something not very clear. Well, it is very clear, I think, but maybe it's something so normal that not always is structured. When I send an email, I produce a lot of metadata. When I send one, I receive an email, like the path that the email had to follow, to reach me, in terms of different email server, email relayer, that forward message in terms of information about the sending domain, in terms of the client that sent the email. And we have many, many, many, many more. And of course, file system metadata, we already discussed, and this allows us to focus on another point, which is the discussion, another specific domain of file system forensic, which is the file system itself, that merits some discussion, a lot of discussion, a lot of discussion, in fact, that we will have after the break, if no question now.

So, let's have a break. I forgot to unmute myself, so it's not registered. So, very briefly, I was saying that that the smallest unit, from the end user perspective, is a file, is a kind of metaphor given by the underlying operating system to the end user. That reflects in a series of bytes normally, but this can be also lines, records, depending on the structure of the underlying storage device.

So, you may have a logical file map on many different, let's call, physical entities, like in central memory, in a magnetic drive, in a solid state drive, in the cloud even, so remotely, other way. So, you can use a type of view behind a network transmission, and also depending on the physical device, you may have different types of physical units, memory addresses, memory cell, magnetic surfaces, or even remote resources that you don't know.

So what you can see is the exchange of packets flowing through the network card and the central memory that you can see as a file. So the physical entity may vary a lot, and this may have an impact on the forensic investigation. For example, it's pretty different the underlying behavior of a normal historic hard drive of magnetic type, which is nowadays getting more and more rare due to the more performing solid state drive that, however, have a very different mechanism of work that impacts a lot of forensic investigations and what we are going to say.

So depending on the underlying structure of the device and the type of mediation of the operating system and of the file system itself, we have different impacts and different series of data and different possibilities to recover, to hide, and to manipulate data onto my storage. We already started to mention this aspect in the borderline topic that we discussed before, before the holiday about the mounting of a device that immediately creates a kind of logical interface between the user and the interaction at low level with the actual device, which is mediated by the file metaphor, so the operating system can apply a lot of whys from a safety perspective, mediation before writing, before modifying, and to check the modification of the data onto the storage, but that also hides what is really ongoing at a physical level.

And, well, let's go into some details that allow to understand better the point. Those are metadata file attributes that we basically already mentioned that we basically already mentioned, and like name, type, interesting enough, since the concept of metadata, also according to the question given to me in the break, the metadata can be inside or outside a specific file, and we have also mixed and blurred possibilities about where to find the metadata. For example, a very common type of metadata related to the file, which is usually inside the file itself, is the file type, which is normally in the very first bytes, sometimes also in the trail at the end of the file, that allows to identify the file type, this is also known as a image number, and that is a reliable, not considering a willing attacker that wants to manipulate and modify deeply the content of a file.

So, an interesting discussion can arise here from a forensic perspective, the extension, DOS legacy, a very, very unsent operating system, a kind of basic interface between the user and the user and the underlying physical devices, mandated that the name of a file may be at most of eight characters for the name itself, a dot, and then three characters for the extension that allow the identification of the file type.

that allow the identification of the file type. We already have this legacy when we call a textual file dot txt, when we name an open office file, dot odf, or odt, if it is a doc, etc., many possible types. in the fact that we use three characters. Nowadays, these limitations no longer exist, do not apply, but still, due to what we inherited, by how our ancestors continue to use this convention to name files, sometimes enlarging a little, sometimes we use four characters, five characters, but basically, very often after the dot, we have a very limited number of characters to identify a file, while the name is nowadays much larger than H characters usually.

Why I'm saying that? I'm saying that because because the the identification and also the run and the reaction, let's say, of an operating system is many times characterized by the extension. For example, a window inside a Windows operating system, if I double click on a jpg file, usually Windows Invoke, or Windows operating system invokes an image visualizer of some kind, graphic editing program, or something like that, relaying on the extension, and also applications in different operating systems can do the same. And then, from a forensic perspective, this is a typical approach to provide a wrong extension. Like, for example, put a .txt name for a name which is instead an executable one in order to fool the user, driving to think that the file is innocuous, while it can provoke damage. Of course, this is a kind of old-fashioned technique. Nowadays, instead, a mismatch between the extension and the identification of the file type, according to the magic number, the few initial bytes is flagged as a kind of misbehavior, probably a malicious attempt.

But, and so, the magic number is a reliable one to identify the file type, which is, in this case, this is a metadata inside a file, while many times we have metadata that may appear in the file, but are in a separate one, like the case of the .odf format in which we have the .odf format in which we have a .zip archive, a compressed archive, that you can be compressed with a .zip utility, and that results in a bunch of files. Sometimes, one of them is a file with the .zip files, one of them is a file with the metadata about the document, for example, you may have images, etc., a number of files. So, sometimes the metadata is outside the file itself, while sometimes inside to answer, to point into this aspect, due to questions, due to questions during the break. Coming back to the discourse, okay, we have a magic number, which is a more reliable source to understand what type of file, but still, if I am a malicious user, I can also manipulate this magic number. Of course, this might have results, this might result in damaging the correct execution of the file. If I say, okay, this is a PDF file, while instead it is an executable one, of course, if I try to run it, will be invoked a PDF reader that will just say the file appears wrong, damaged, will not be capable of running it, of course. So, I damage, as an attacker, if I manipulate the magic number, I damage the correct behavior of the file, but I may have my agenda, my strategy, in order to fool the, I don't know, the antivirus, the barriers that identify malicious attack, because I do not want that my fake PDF file be read or, well, analyzed through a through a PGF reader. But instead, I want to trespass, maybe an antivirus that checks for executable, in order to reach a node, and then start to infect according to a subsequent strategy, okay? So, if I have a kind of hexagonal editor or anything that can manipulate, at byte level, a file, then I can change the magic number and claim to be any kind of file I want, okay? Again, this is not a trusted source of information, even if more reliable, because the change of the extension is possible for any end-user, even if more reliable than just the extension, okay?

But it's good to remember any time that metadata are not just by definition. And, well, okay, still on file level metadata, I already mentioned that, and the fact that we may have a lot of them, we will explore a little more with some examples now, in specific cases. Okay, so, it's good to focus a little more on the normal, just some sample of this storage. So, we have to cope with a number of different standards. Well, first of all, we need to understand that, we already mentioned that, but we have to be clear with the fact that we have a physical device that might be a series of NAND cells, a set of surfaces with magnetic fields on on that. Okay, sorry, I see there are problems. No, okay, okay, thank you. No, I just seen that from home, same, some problems, but probably just a single user. Okay, so, we need to understand the difference between the physical device that might be all of this, and even more different, and also a magnetic tape, etc., we have different type of block of devices, and we already mentioned that in previous lessons, the logical structure, which is created by the initial setup of the device inside a specific operating system, and this is the formatting operation, which is the initial preparation of a physical structure of expected by the operating system. Ah, well, we may distinguish quick or full formatting, where the quick formatting implies that the device has already been set up in order to store data according to the standard chosen by the operating system, and the quick formatting is just the procedure of overriding, of reshaping the basically metadata about the organization of the organization of the file, and well, might be pretty much damaging, but do not erase really the content, the previous content of a device, if any, of course, because just overwrite the metadata that say, well, you can find the free space, where are stored files, where are stored this and that directory, etc., etc., etc., what are the previous operations performed, etc., basically all the metadata of about a device. Well, the full formatting is what I said, is the shaping of the whole hard drive according to the expected shape that the operating system wants, following the indication of a user, for example, choosing three partitions of this side, etc., etc., etc., and during this operation all the physical surface of the device is affected, and then all the data are erased, if any, or are reorganized, and all the internal organization of the device is organized according to the file system type and file system chosen options.

Oh, well, as I said, this usually results in the creation of different separate areas called partitions that might follow different file system types, usually any of them, that, well, we have historical categorization, according to original masterboot record organization, in primary extended logical, historically, with the original masterboot record format, due to space limitation, we may have four primary partitions that, with a nice organization, can be extended to an arbitrary number, sticking with the limitation of four, from the perspective of the masterboot record. But nowadays, with the UEFI standard, this limitation no longer exists, we may have an arbitrary number by design of partitions. And again, well, this might be, from a forensic perspective, something that you should know if your drive is still an old one, and then you might find an old-fashioned masterboot record structure at the beginning of your drive or not. Coming back to the file system, then we erased everything with full formatting for the first time, we created many different possible partitions, and for any of them, we might select a specific file system. Well, not very arbitrarily, in some cases, well, not really.

We cannot be fully free of choose our preferred file system, in the sense that some file systems are more supported by specific operating system, and some of them are not easily available in other ones. So, basically, the operating system pretty much indicates the kind of file system we are going to choose, even if it's possible with maybe third-party utilities, with specific configuration support and access even different file system types, like, for example, So, the native nowadays solution for Windows is NTFS, for Mac OS X is APFS, for Linux is the most widespread is still X4, etc.

So, basically, if we choose the normal setup, we have this default configuration, but if, for example, we want to have interaction with different kinds of storage, for example, for example, and, I don't know, a Linux box, we might set up different partition with different operating system, like native one, X4, like one with NTFS, as other possible partition for specific experiments, and so on. The choice of the file system type reflects on the creation of the foundational structures that allow to identify and to interact with the storage.

Basically, the file system type indicates where to find information about partition content, file allocation, log information, metadata information, and how extensive are the metadata available in a specific case. Well, it's good to have an example to understand what we are talking about. What we are talking about, we will have the simplest one, which is file allocation table, file system, the FAT, in which we have a very straightforward and simple structure. And another example is NTFS, which is instead a more complex and modern one.

And there exist many other possible alternatives that can be used in a file system to identify where to find a file. a file, coming from a kind of simple allocation of information, which is very poorly effective, and nowadays with drives of terabytes, or tens, or multiple terabytes, would no longer be accepted, because it would be really useful because it would be too long to wait for having a file of some gigabytes. Okay, so we nowadays have file systems that flow a lot toward a kind of database structure with index, index with information to recover, with structure that, for example, modify beforehand metadata, and then try to withhold the process and then try to apply the process in order to have a kind of atomic behavior for multiple actions, in order to not leave the file system in inconsistent state.

We have also duplication in order to roll back to previous state, and so on. Nowadays, these kinds of concepts are now embedded in modern file system types, in order to provide robustness and reliability from the perspective of file systems. Well, nowadays, the mechanism embedded in storage devices, and sometimes also at file system level, also might provide encryption by default in order to have a kind of seamless translation between encrypted transformation between encrypted and plain text data before reaching the central memory, and before reaching the storage memory, in order to have always the content of the storage of the hard drive encrypted.

So, nowadays, concepts of reliability, performance, and security are more and more embedded at hardware level. And this is a good thing from the perspective of a user that has a lot of mechanisms that prevent attack, attack, but maybe also the other side of the metal, a very complicating factor during the forensic investigation. Well, we have some concept that relates to the device itself, so we are still not at the file system level. This is a kind of general concept that applies regardless of the specific file system type.

This is the beginning of your storage. So, and this is needed in order to understand when, at the very beginning, when you switch on your device, you still not have any kind of information on the structure. Your operating system is still not in place. You are just powering your circuitry. And then the solution to allow the boot, the historical solution to allow the booting of a device, is to put at the beginning of the hard drive, what is called the master boot record, at the very beginning, the first sector, that contains the master boot code, a code needed to start the process of booting the device.

And this sector, historically, is of 512 bytes. So, you have to put the whole content of the master boot record inside this little amount of bytes, a very short code, name it master boot code, and then, and that is the reason of having only four primary partition, the remaining of the bytes, almost all, apart from the boot signature, the last two bytes, is related to the partition table that explains what are the sides, let's say, of the partitions inside this hard drive.

Since we have assigned 16 bytes for each partition, and we have 64 bytes, this is why we may have, at most, historically, four primary partition. Okay? And, furthermore, we have, since it's used a 32-bit hard drive inside, in the original standard, and we have 16 bytes, if you, so, to the power, to the power, elevated 32 possibilities, for sectors of alpha kilobytes, you can see that we may reach the total amount of 2 terabytes per partition, in the historical version, which is not so bad, but nowadays, nowadays, even for normal consumer device, might be surpassed.

And so, it's no longer, will be no longer announced, nowadays. But you have, from modern technology, even more drawback, like the fact that if we have a damage, a corruption in sector zero, we may lose the whole content of the hard drive, and, well, we may no longer be able to lose the whole content of the hard drive. And, well, we may no longer be able to switch on, to, well, to switch on, yes, but to successfully run our operating system, our device. Okay, because the masterbook code, and all the partition table, are no longer meaningful, are corrupted.

Okay, and, well, nowadays, we have the UEFI standard that surpasses and provides a different initial allocation, a different initial organization of an hard drive that allows for redundancy of the first part, but that allows for larger set of partitions, that also allows for retrocompatibility, providing the protective master boot record for all the legacy operating systems, for legacy applications that expect to have the master boot record in the first sector. While instead, the globally unique identified partition table, the GPT, is no longer placed in sector zero.

So, going into some more detail, well, we have a fixed portion at the beginning, not in sector zero, where the sector zero contains what is called a fake NBR for retrocompatibility. Another concept to know when you approach a modern hard drive. You find something that is meaningful from the perspective of an old device, a kind of master boot record that has meaningful information, limited. Maybe it is not capable of describing correctly, maybe because we have a partition larger than 2TB, for example, but that contains meaningful information.

In which sense meaningful? In which sense meaningful? This is interesting. Meaningful in the sense that says the whole hard drive is allocated. So, if all the legacy applications try to manipulate the hard drive, like, well, to manipulate, like, to format the hard drive, then at least this is normal behavior when you perform a destructive operation. At least the end user, the operation is stopped and the end user is prompted to confirm the operation.

Okay? So, the protective NBR, in this sense, contains information that allows you to understand that the whole disk is not empty, and so destructive operations are at least delayed or mitigated by the interaction of the user. So, while a new structure allows you to structure the hard drive in a safely and more robust way, in which we have two GPT headers that contain the table location, the partition table, basically, of the disk. Basically, of the disk, plus some hash in the form of a CRC32 checksum to avoid data corrupted.

And that allow, in case of the check of the GPT primary header, which is normally used if a check versus the CRC confirm corruption of the primary header, immediately the backup GPT table will be put in place in order to ensure continuity in order to ensure continuity in the usage of the hard drive and to avoid the interaction with a corrupted indication of the content of the disk. And inside, what's inside this GPT header? Well, you may have a lot of information in there. In there, you can easily find it.

I do not want to go into many details, but basically the information relevant is the usable, the partition organization and the usable space on the disk, as well as I mentioned. Information that allows to identify the core, to check the proper state of the table itself, that with redundancy, with the redundant presence of another table, can immediately, in case of accidental error, be corrected and restored. So, it's a much more reliable organization than the one from the original MBHair.

Okay, so this is the structure that defines our drive, and this is agnostic in respect of the underlying file system inside any partition. At any partition level, we may have an arbitrary file system type. And if any partition would have the volume boot record, that is the first sector of the partition, that might describe some information on the partition itself, and specific file system structure, and consequently, data. An example of a file system type is the fact, which is, well, still in use as a kind of, still in use, not very efficient, very limited.

But sometimes, particularly when many different operating system has to interact, can be a possible source of interaction. Since the fact file system is a very simple one, is well implemented, which is, well, basically, it is easy to be managed, and used by any other modern operating system. So, can be a kind of neutral storage type that can be used if you want to exchange, for example, data mediated by a file system, which is nowadays not so common. But, in some cases, it might still be useful from, for example, a Linux box and a Windows box.

Nowadays, you have a lot of different options, but historically, this was a possible solution. And then, in some cases, you still find some of them. Well, if you are going to use a FAT as any other, any other file system, the beginning is, of organization of an hard drive is the same that you have with other file systems. Basically, in the volume record, you put information related to the file system type, the operating system, the characteristics of the disk or of the partition, more correctly.

The, yeah, the overall organization, number of bytes per sector, that may vary depending on the configuration of your, of the desired configuration of the user, the number of sectors per cluster, if you have an old drive with old metrics, or the linear sector. You have a lot of sector allocation in modern ones. The file table, of course, that gives the name of this file system, you have a file table, a master file table, in two copies. The file table, that one for redundancy, that gives you info on allocated clusters, of allocated sectors, and how, basically, you may, how you proceed to gather all the information that you need from a specific file.

Also, also, mentioning if a file sector is available, regardless of the fact that it has data inside. So, you may have a cluster, a cluster, a sector available, even if it contains data, maybe previously allocated data, that can be, that if you directly access to the device, it can still recover. Or, if it is reserved, so you cannot access it, because it behaves to, that, that, that, that, the zone of your drive, it has, belongs to the operating system, or is then, maybe a physical error in order to, to avoid the, the usage of, damaged cell.

Or, damaged cell or sector. And so on. And, well, in the fact case, some simple structures are created in order to organize the content, like the directory table at root level, at the top level. Well, a nice, well, but basically, that's it, the structure that you have inside a file system, you have the file allocation table into copy. Well, you have the volume boot sector, a space reserved, that is reserved and not used at the beginning of the partition, just after the boot sector, and then the two copies of the file allocation table.

For example, the, the, the, where this is present is an information inside the, the boot sector itself, so how much space is, is reserved. Then, then, at the very beginning, the directory, the root folder, and then, well, when you start to populate your file system with, with information, are the folders and files in the rest of the space, which is, of course, the, the, the largest part. How work the directory, how is organized a directory entry, and how work the, the gathering, or the data inside a FAT file system?

The directory entry contains some metadata of the file itself, like the file of the file into this directory, so this is valid for the root directory, and in general, for all the direct subdirectories that are created from that file. It contains a list of file names contained into the directory, a list of file names contained into the directory, a list of attributes, a limited list of attributes, like the very basic very basic ones, if it's read-only, if it's read-only or not, if it's hidden or not, and not much more than that.

The size of the file, which is an information that might be confirmed by the access of the file or not, in the sense that this information might be corrupted, and then, for example, you might not be able to recover all the number of bytes indicated in this file size metadata, which is the basic structure, the basic organization, very, very simple one, a kind of linked list, that identifies the file star cluster number inside the directory entry. That point to a position inside the file allocation table. The file allocation table is basically a sequence of next position of the next cluster, where the data about the file are stored, basically.

So, for example, this file starts in cluster or sector 29, the concept is the same, into the file location table at point 29 in the data cell 29, I can find out that the sector 30 is again part, again contains information about the data contains information about this file, then I checked in the file location table, position 30, I appreciate that also sector 33 contains information about this file, then I go to position 33, and finally, here I can find that, okay, the file allocation table that contains information, but the file allocation table shows me that this is the last sector devoted to this file.

Okay, so I understand, okay, so I understand where is the end of the file, following inside the file allocation table, the different position, until I find out the end of the end of the file, and this is the same for any file. for any file, okay, as you may, this is a didactical schema, but basically it's pretty realistic about how the file allocation table works. So, what you can conclude about this kind of allocation, that is very simple, then allow for portability, because any operating system, any application perfectly understands how to cope with that, is useful for migration.

Sometimes, if I want to export a huge amount of data, and I need to provide that in different operating systems, given some caution, might be a good idea to use that. So, basically, basically, I might have this kind of procedure, I put my file in a FAT operating system, then I mount this kind of storage, my pendrive, for example, into different devices, there, I convert, and again, this is a simple operation, because the FAT file system, basically, basically, has a limited amount of very clear metadata, I can migrate this into the file system, present on the device, I'm plugging my file system into.

So, for this kind of operation, for this kind of operation is simple, and, well, I have some drawbacks, of course, I have a limited amount, a limited size of file, limited partitions, size, as well, which is different from the MDR limitation, this is specific to the file system, and usually, for many, we have a different flavor, different flavor of that file system, most of the time, it is smaller than the original MDR limit, so, I need to not have two big files, two big partitions, I need, I do not need to have specific meta information, information, because, well, because, well, it's different if I try to translate an MTFS file system content into a FAT one, because I'm losing, or the same EXT4, or whatever, modern file system, because I'm losing all the metadata information, which is something that maybe I do not want to do.

This is something that I want to do, this is something that I want to do, when I do not have metadata information, like access control, specific, the files, and instead I want to use the one present on the original file system, so automatically, during the migration process, the content, the files will be updated to this new access control, access control list, and in general, metadata. So, if this is something that I want, maybe a possibility. But, as I said, as I mentioned, there are a huge number of Dropbox drawbacks, and, well, nowadays, it's getting a very niche operating system. Well, we do not have any performance-wise feature, like compression, security feature, like encryption, access, sophisticated access controls, poor performance, like due to the kind of allocation, the kind of allocation, we have a very lengthy process to access files, we do not have index structure, we do not have any improving performance solution there. It's a very basic file system structure that is useful only for nowadays, for very limited cases in which the portability is relevant of a small amount of data, and, well, in my opinion, is useful for didactical purposes, because we have a very clear structure that allows us to understand how to how to organize files. And, well, it's something that allows us to understand immediately the point of recovering data, because an operating system, when trying to delete a data, will not go to any sector to delete the content, put in the zeroes, for example, in the zeroes, for example, inside that sector. But instead, we'll say something like, this sector is available. Okay. And so the whole chain will be available as well.

Or I may put a specific identifier, or I may put a specific identifier that says, this sector is available. Okay. But this does not modify the content of the sector, just the structure that describes the sector. And then, if thanks to a tool that goes directly on the device surface, to get to get the information, if a device explores really the sector 29, 30, 33, the information, if no one, meanwhile, overwritten that information, will be still there, and then I will be able to recover that. Okay. Pretty clear? Question Question for today. We, I have a reference that you can, and you can find easily, but in particular, this one is a nice one. We will have, next week, another example, more sophisticated, of a modern operating, of a modern file system, in modern operating system, which is MTFS. If no question for today, response for today, which is MTFS. I am backed by, Artist.

Oh, that way part. Thank you. First question. First question. First question. Second question. First question. First question. First question. Second question. Second question. First question.
