We can start again. As usual, any questions or remarks, some of you already can hear and discuss something, but if you have remarks on aspects, also bureaucratic ones, or whatever, you may ask also those staff that maybe are of interest for all of the students of this course. Just an update, since I do not publish the list, but an update for everyone about the homework. I already received a reasonable number of proposals, so if you are interested in doing an homework, it's almost time, and of course you still not applied, let's say, discuss with me about the staff. It's almost time because we are not so far from the threshold of the number of different homework, okay? So if you are interested, it's good to apply for, well, send me an email or come to discuss, but come to discuss is good to set up a possible homework, but remember to send an email in order to have a list and, well, just formally discuss, let's say, formally defined in order to be sure to be in the list, okay? And, well, if you are still interested, but maybe still do not know what to do, you can send me an email and discuss I suggest that as soon as possible in order to have an homework, but this is completely optional.

This is just for, well, improvement in knowledge of some specific point in having one or two points to add to the final evaluation and to, well, share some knowledge with the rest of the of the course, but this is completely optional. So no problem, you can obtain a further degree on the final evaluation, even by only doing the written exam, okay? So this is fully optional, just if you have time, if you want, et cetera, et cetera. Okay. Getting back to the, to our arguments, last week we approached the, the problem of having a trusted environment from the perspective of about, of how many possibilities of infection, of malicious gain, of sophistication in possible attacks that any of us, in particular if involved in a subtle, important and costly digital forensic investigation. So the point was to, to just highlight the possibilities that can compromise, how can we compromise the, the system in particular with a focus on, well, just a Linux example in which I show you how to barely interact with the operating system in order to understand the possible logs, possible interaction and how we can compromise the underlying behavior of, of the system. For example, alter by altering the, the kill system called, which is a, well, a very pervasive way in which the different application can, and the operating system itself exchange information signals, literally, with, with, with applications. And so if we, it is possible to change the behavior of this very deep system, system-inherent functionality, and then the, the application may behave in a very different, in a very different way. For example, this may be the case of a kind of model that gains a lot of privileges or privileges, and then act, avoiding the possibility to be, to be killed by, by normal operating system functionality. Or, well, and this may be generalized to, to any kind of behavior. I can change, as I said, the, I, for example, open system call, in order to modify the interaction with the, with the storage, the writes system call, in order to change what I'm going to write on a, on a file system, etc., etc., etc.

Any kind of underlying interaction with the operating system might be both modified by modifying the system calls. And this is just one example one example, about how can we compromise, so, or modified, because we also mentioned the, the possibility that the owner of the operating system is a malicious actor that want to fool an investigation, and then change the underlying system behavior, in order to avoid the possibility to find traces, for example, of malicious actions, etc., So, we need to be very well aware of this kind of possibilities when we approach a digital forensics investigation. Along a similar vein, what we need when we approach a forensic investigation is the setup of our toolset, the concept, or of our place, of our laboratory, in which we will perform our operation, in order to be sure to have a trusted and trustworthy environment, instead of a compromised one.

And so, it's good to focus on what we need in our toolset, in order to perform efficiently and effectively our digital investigation. So, of course, we need some security related characteristics, like the fact that our tools are our programs, our application, our laptop, our laboratory is state-of-the-art level, from the point of view of accuracy, in what in any operation we will have to do, in order to introduce essentially no errors, no errors in our operation. And this maybe it should have been verified, certified, checked, well-known tools, and using, adopting well-known and certified procedures, that are described, that are, that we can do in accord, we can do in accord to guidelines inside accepted international standards. And the fact that, and this is strictly related with the deterministic, even more important, well, at the same level of importance, because you should remember that, at any time, in principle, our analysis, our even acquisition, gathering of information, our whole chain of operation might be redone in order to check for the accuracy, and to check that no errors have been introduced in the whole chain, in the whole chain, because otherwise the counterpart might counter our conclusion, and, well, banish our possibility to be successful in a trial, or to propagate, let's say, to make, to put in place our conclusion in terms of time measures, of identification of guilty people or agents, in terms of identification of time, etc., etc. So, any operation should be redone and results in the same output, the same output, if we do that again, under the same conditions. And this might be somehow, well, obvious, if you think at it, but, for example, a very modern way of performing this, the operation, all the time, introduce significant challenges. I'm thinking at artificial intelligence assistance in digital forensic, that introduce a significant amount of black boxing in the analysis, as well as probabilistic behavior, that, for example, example, maybe you can correctly shape with some relevant and digital forensics specific prompt engineering approach that you may set in the mode that you are using, like dropping down the so-called temperature in order to have a little probabilistic approach. But of course, this is, in theory, something that you should know, but in practice, this may affect the effectiveness of the analysis. So, well, in fact, the artificial intelligence application in digital forensics is a quite novel field in which we are witnessing now the possibility and the spreading of application. But for sure, this challenges a lot the deterministic properties that a digital forensics tool should maintain. So, this is important to know when we start an investigation and we attempt to use artificial intelligence in our investigation.

Well, the fact that it is verifiable is meaning is quite close to what I already said and this, however, also may affect your workflow in a digital investigation. Well, again, if we talk about artificial intelligence involved in the investigation, a growing, let's say, approach in that is using multiple tools to not only rely on the artificial intelligence output in order to check the outcome, to check the outcome. And being able to immediately verify the accuracy, the correctness, I would say, of the output of the tool in order to understand as soon as possible in your workflow, in your chain of operation, when a possible inconsistency has been been introduced or at least some details need to be checked. And this is what I mentioned, for example, via a second tool for the verification. It is a good approach in general, in particularly sensitive investigation, or in particular condition in which, for example, you cannot rely on your usual tool.

It is of greater importance when you adopt the tools that, by definition, are probabilistic, like our nice large language models. And, of course, compressiveness and... well, compressiveness is... ...is inherent to the digital investigation properties. Because, this is pretty intuitive as a concept. If you just have some of the data related to a specific case, it is well clear that you can conclude something something not perfectly accurate. Because, you should remember, a component of a digital investigation is the timeline reconstruction, which is inherently the correlation of different facts, in order to have a flow of events, like in the example of John, that we had a couple of weeks ago.

a couple of weeks ago. In which you can describe, identify, and hypothesize something logic, and something sound, about the course of action, from the beginning to the end. If we overlook, if we missed some evidence, or, well, not not we as a person, as people, but our tools, well, this, of course, will drive to, to my, well, drive to wrong conclusions. And, well, I put here, as first one, the usability, not by chance, because the usability of tool is something that, of course, helps the web, the...

how much a tool can be widespread, but also affect the number, let's say, of actions, the sequence, how fast we can be in doing an investigation. And, in a significant share of possible digital investigation, the fact that you can approach it, and can perform the different phases, quickly, is a very important aspect, more than just usability. Sometimes it's a matter of how fast we can be in gathering and starting the analysis, in order to enlarge our source of evidence, before, for example, the evidence... then the evidence themselves are destroyed or deleted, even by normal maintenance operation. And so, having a usable, straightforward tool may be the difference between a successful or preliminary, preliminary, preliminary possible investigation. Well, some principles here, of computer forensics. Well, the principle of forensics uncertainty, similar to, to Eisenberg one, the fact that, if you perform actions to a system, even if you try to observe, to see some functionality, without willing to modify the status of the system, even the action of reading something, is an action that introduces some perturbation in the system itself. And so, the principle, well, the working principle, the working principle here, as you may well understand, is, as soon as possible, try to have a different copy of the system. Not only have a different copy, but we now have two important conditions that we should accomplish too.

We should get the copy with the minimum possible perturbation of the system. Ideally, with the system switched off, if we can do that. So, having a copy not from the original running system, but having, for example, our our, well, the evidence, the storage that we need to explore, plug it into a write blocker, for example. And, this is one, try to copy with the minimum possible amount of interaction with the original system, and the other one, and the other one, and the other one, which many times, may be a kind of competitor of this principle, is the fact, which we described just before last week, that we should have a trusted system for doing this kind of operation.

So, this may involve the possibility to transfer the storage physically in a different place. This may involve the possibility to have a direct contact with a cloud provider, for example, if the evidence is on the cloud. This may involve having a kind of hardware suite case, that we can plug into a system, or that allows to unplug some part of the system, like the, well, the memory, central memory, in the most sophisticated case, or at least the storage, in order to gain a quick dump of a quick dump of the whole content, of the whole content, of the whole content. that not relying on the device we want to analyze. that allow to unplug some part of the system, like the memory, central memory in the most sophisticated case, or at least the storage in order to have a quick dump of the whole content not relying on the device we want to analyze.

So, this is by far not that simple, and well, I already said that, and I repeat, and probably I will repeat again, this is something, okay, you have your, well, this is something related with the experience of the investigator, with the knowledge of similar cases, what has been done, what were the errors in the acquisition, in the interaction with the device, and of course, this relates to the knowledge of the procedures, of the standards that exist, and that a forensic investigator should know, not just knowing the notions mnemonically, knowing the form, let me say, of the standard, but also deeply understanding what's behind the sequence of guidelines, the statement that suggests the procedure, in order to understand when might be more proficient a different step in an established procedure. And this can come just from a very deep knowledge of of the underlying mechanisms of the different devices, of the different evidences that we can interact to.

The principle trust in one is the second one, and extensively discussed that, so it's a nice formulation in order to remember what you should do in a digital forensics. Well, the history is written by the winners. This means, basically, another way to say, you cannot rely on the, let me say, official mechanism of logging on the identified source of information. Well, you should get them, but with a very critical eye, meaning acquire, get and reconstruct a possible timeline from those devices, but be always ready to make in correlation other sources and actively look for different sources in order to check as many as possible different steps in the original evidence. Because, as I said multiple times now, a device may have been compromised that this can result in missing logs, in manipulated information, in missing erased parts, infected by malware devices, and so on, that can, from 100% to just 1.0.1%, modify the amount of information present on the device and lead, might lead to wrong conclusions, might be shaped at heart in order to fulfill an investigation. This is, in case of most sophisticated cases, but this is something that, for example, APT groups might do.

Nowadays, in such a terrible warfare scenario at worldwide level, it is pretty common that an APT group try to try to mimic the action, the techniques, the styles of a different group in order to mislead the investigators to think that a different APT, for example, a Chinese might try to suggest that a Chinese APT might suggest that a Russian-like offensive beer one that performed some action. This might, well, there are suspects of this kind of behavior many times now in a NUMA investigation. So, you should be able to correlate many, many sources of information, examining the suspect ones, but not using that as the only source of information.

And, well, the impermanence, a kind of, well, spiritual principle that applies also on hardware and software context, in which, sooner or later, everything will disappear. So, we should approach, with a sound order, our gathering of information. And so, our tools should, to be able, our toolset, more properly, should be able to deal with this set of principles and with the desired set of characteristics. So, here we have a practical set of digital forensic changes that you may appreciate the fact that many of them comes from an archetypical book, the Garfinkel one, that is now more than 15 years old, but still, even if sometimes, with a different spirit of what was originally written in the book, they, this set of advices is still valid, the size of story devices. Well, you may say that evolving the technology, you get more computational power, but also, you get more large devices.

And so, the size of story devices is still, is today, like 10 years ago, like 20 years ago, when I ran my first in lab experiments in digital forensics, is a sensible point. And why? Well, you now have terabytes, many different devices, and since you should get many different sources, and you should get, and you should put in a single, at the end of your investigation timeline, you must be able to manage, oh well, hundreds, thousands, thousands, tens of thousands of terabytes nowadays, in a, well, not so atypical digital investigation. And then, you need devices that can store them, and tools that are capable to analyze them, in a reasonable amount of time, which is not so, not so obvious. And, well, for example, this will require, and, well, you have many points here, the fact that your drives need to be accurate, and, at state-of-the-art, let's say, level, in order to avoid as much as possible, a very negligible error rate, to not introduce even one bit of error. You should remember, this will be a kind of practical denial of service, if you rely on storage that any, I don't know, 10 terabytes introduce one bit error, because this basically means that you should continuously redo your hashing operation, continuously change, redo, and check, and do again your, for example, copy of storage, and it will be a practical problem in an investigation. So, this size of storage involves an expensive approach, and also the fact that you need computational power in order to analyze this amount of data. And this, for example, is the efficiency in this case, the efficiency of tools is, for example, something that avoids a tool like, well, autopsy, which is a very nice tool in our context, which, with a lot of functionalities, is not very much used in real cases, because it is not effective as other ones, and in a real case, this is a key point. Embed the flash device, well, at that time, the point was mostly related to initial, well, old-fashioned, pan-top, well, not so initial, but mobile phones with proprietary operating system, initial IoT devices, etc., that now get much more widespread, much more powerful, much more, well, adopted in any corner of the world, and so, and also increased in sophistication, meaning that about the embedded devices, nowadays, we may also face, we may also encounter hardware-level defenses, that, from one side, are good stuff.

It is much harder to tamper this kind of devices, but from a digital forensic perspective, this may increase a lot the difficulty of performing an operation with this kind of separated device. And today, like 15 years ago, the proprietary, the proprietary characteristics of embedded device still are a difficult problem that may be approached by increasing the knowledge on that specific device, that may be difficult because there are a lot, there are a lot of volumes in terms of embedded devices, but sometimes it is plainly not accessible, if you do not have a specific interaction with the manufacturer of the device itself. And, well, again, this increases a lot, the problems for that. And also, along this vein, many times, the third point here is related to this aspect.

Different vendors, different manufacturers, different integrators, create different levels of operating processing systems, and file formats, and file system formats, and application-specific formats, and so on, and so forth. And, again, this requires a lot of knowledge in practical terms, in order to avoid errors in the interaction, and compromise of specific information. Well, and also multi-device analysis, that at that time was more related with specific computing one, pen top, first version of smartphones, etc.

nowadays has to do with even, still, many different devices, but also, this is, now we have a kind of joint venture with cloud computing, since what is to, from many different angles, a new device nowadays, this might be just an instance on a data center operated by a cloud provider. We may have local machines, local virtual machines, that are full, well, virtualized devices, from hardware perspective, from different operating systems, and so on. And, of course, the cloud computing has its own problems. Nowadays it's so pervasive that 90% of investigation has has at least a little interaction with, well, some kind of cloud offered information.

And, well, also pervasive encryption has got a lot more pervasive than 10 years ago, you may, well, maybe you are too young to notice that, but some 10 years ago, 15 years ago, the interaction on the network was mostly HTTP without the S. and so we have plenty, we had plenty of different, of application level traffic in clear on the network that can be used in a digital investigation. While nowadays, the close to the total amount of traffic is on HTTPS, so it's encrypted above transport level, and this may hide a huge number of useful information.

And this is from the network perspective, while from, and at the time when Goffinck had written the book, this was at the beginning and well perceived the present situation, also, well, from the natural perspective, but also from the storage perspective. Well, nowadays we have all normal consumer level and often also specific, special purpose operating system that provide the interaction with encrypted information on the storage. So, if we perform our operation of detaching the storage from a device and put it on a write blocker without having the possibility to derive the key to acquire the encryption key used, this will result in a useless piece of information.

And, well, the sophistication of malware, well, the sophistication of this scenario, let's say, that also reflects on the sophistication of malware in terms of limiting the amount of traces that a malware, that are malicious agent will live on the system, and with the increasing sophistication of anti-forensic technique, like selective relation, like the possibility to to auto-modify the code from the malware perspective, in order to avoid the signature-based detection, in order to perform excellent query-level obfuscation strategies, means that today edge malware is very, very difficult to to be detected, particularly if part of an APT-level campaign. The legal challenges, well, are still there.

So, for example, we have ongoing effort, but I will say also ongoing introduction of complexity in the cooperation and in the possibility to share in different legal contexts, the investigation of the intermediate artifacts of an investigation. And, well, since nowadays we have, for sure, well, criminal organization that have the shape of multinational activities, well, this is a barrier that, from the part, from the side of the good guys, introduces a burden by far much more large than the bad guys one, that can attack different devices in tens of countries at the same time, in the most sophisticated cases.

And those were discussed and introduced by Garfinkel. So, nowadays we can nicely have modern further challenges, like the AI ones, in which we have synthetic data that can resemble even a human analysis, perfectly realistic, and can fool even our direct investigation. So, even for instruments, for evidence, like photos or videos, we need support of different tools in order to conclude the authenticity of an evidence that might be coupled with anti-parency technique, and that can result in nearly impossible to identify evidence, evidence, authenticity. And so, we have a lot of work and awareness in front of us. So, we should begin from on simple steps. We need to understand what we can do in order to have a setup capable to resist and to achieve the list of properties and to accomplish the principle and counter and cope with the difficulties that we identified.

And so, we can approach our laboratory setup with a set of nice properties. Well, even from a physical point of view, like, for example, for state of the lab, we should take into account also the geographical characteristics of the location. For example, depending on what we want to achieve, we should choose a easily securable place. That might be, that might mean, well, in practice we should start with a kind of threat model, with a kind of threat analysis, and even before we should have our scenario views of the lab, in order to derive the requirements of our lab, in order to define what might be a physically sound location. What I may mean? For example, I mentioned that nowadays attacks are the current form of national sponsored groups like the APT28 that we encounter in our lessons.

If we want to run a national sponsored lab, then we should choose, for example, a remote location, because our scenario maybe we should be able to resist, since due to the sensitivity of our analysis, a place that might resist even to physical attack. And then we may place that on the top of a mountain, or in the middle of a desert, and so on. Or if we have, if we are at the mid-level of sensitivity, maybe we should put it in a very secured and guarded, a strictly guarded building with armed guards at the entrance. Of course we should perform some kind of statistical investigation on the geomorphical characteristics of the place. Not a good idea to to arrange it close to, I don't know, a mountain, or if we have information about, well, disaster close to that, or close to a river, again in case of flu, of often in case the river, often floods in the neighborhood, and so on, well, if a place is subject to earthquakes, or to volcanic eruptions, etc., well, all this kind of information should be, should be done, because from our threat model, we should perform a risk analysis of the possible threats, and for sure the unwilling, the natural, the random ones, are the first that we should consider, because they may impact significantly the point, the outcome, and the outcome might be very significant in a different context, but, well, is a notable case in a different context, the case of Fukushima, the nuclear nuclear premise in Japan, that was close to the sea for many good reasons, but that the combination of earthquake, which is something that that region is subject to, and the the subsequent, the subsequent, the subsequent tsunami, which is again something rare, but not impossible in that place, caused a significant damage and linkage of nuclear material, even in a pretty advanced nuclear, nuclear central, and we should have the same line of thinking, in setting up a lab, in order to avoid that, for example, we we arranged a lot of very precious evidences, and an earthquake, an earthquake, just buried them under one thousand of tons of rocks, okay, this is natural, but should be considered.

And, of course, the premise, our facility, the securing of the physical place, should consider also, well, all the security principles that we already encounter in our lectures, in our, and that are well inside our knowledge nowadays, like weapons in that organized device, that avoid the physical intrusion in the premise, from classical, from very movie-like ones, that are in real use, like biometrical acts, like biometrical acts, that you should know, not are 100% reliable, because, for example, we may have, well, many possibilities to counterfeit one personal inherent characteristic, and after it is compromised, and after it is compromised, then should, is done, for the whole life, so, yeah, very, very risky approach by only, to rely only, let's say, so, they should cope with other multi-factor characteristics, like something that I know, something that I possess, that should be coupled with other intrusion detection, physical intrusion detection systems, like video surveillance, maybe connected, maybe connected to internet, or maybe not, depending on your threat model, this might be a risky point, if someone can inject into this connection, or can sniff this kind of connection, maybe a closed circuit TV, maybe a closed circuit TV, with personnel inside, maybe classical alarm systems, that can not be interrupted by just cutting a cable, but with multiple connections to reinforce, let's say, to other parties that can intervene in case, in case of problem, and this is just a small list, in order to shape your mind about how to approach the problem.

In case you'll be in charge or need to cooperate with the setup of a lab, you should consider your usage scenarios, derive requirements, derive the trait model, and then derive the guidelines in order to create your own lab instance. Another set of countermeasures that now are more on the side of the logical protection of the device. I met, I encountered many times, the air gap countermeasure, which is pretty useful, but again, by alone, by itself only, is not 100% effective, as the StaxNet case shows us.

The concept here is simple, the systems that are used inside the lab should be air-gapped from the outside world, meaning nothing should be connected to external internet. At most, you may have internal local area networks, sometimes, this is usually something that you may have, but something reduced to some specific subset of your lab, because the lab is, well, pretty extended one with multiple rooms, maybe multiple floors, maybe multiple floors to run the experiment.

the experiment. Again, here we may have the application of Zero Trust principle, in order to allow many different identification, authentication and authorization procedures to get and to communicate between different devices or different parts, different branches, different branches of your lab. But in general, from a physical or from a logical perspective, meaning of course, wireless connection, there should be a very usually separated context, in order to accomplish the principle of of you know knowledge, of least privilege, of need to know, and also need to interact between different branches of the lab.

Meaning that by default, and also security by default, and in this case, the meaning is, you, by default, do not connect with all the device in the lab, unless this is needed by specific reasons. About wireless protection, okay, you may not have your wireless emission from inside your lab, but still, you may have interaction with outside signals that may be focused in order to interfere with the device.

Maybe not yours, or maybe yes, if wrongly configured, but more importantly, you may be subject of signals that can try to inject data in, or for example, activate in functionality of the device. Maybe not yours, or for example, activate in functionality of the device that you save from a possible attacker, from a suspect, let's say. Especially with the suspect, let's say. And then we have the Farad-k, Farad-k, Farad-k bag, and Farad-k rooms. That are specific physical structure in order to avoid the interaction with outside signals of any kind.

For the small device, we have Faraday bags in which you can put your device in. For interaction with a suspect device, we may arrange Faraday rooms, Faraday cage inside the rooms in order to avoid the possibility from outside to reach your investigated device. And well, another point that might be well clear in terms of disaster is the possibility to control your environment and to react to extreme or damaging conditions, of course, in case of anti-fire system, in case of, well, in particular, fire separation system, but this introduces another subtle concept. Even your system, your countermeasure, let's say, may be a source of damage. Like, for example, well, for us in normal condition, let's say, a classic anti-fire system might be based on water, of course, this is a very silly and simple one, or by, or, well, sand-based, or some combination of material that suppress the fire. Many of them are pretty damaging for electronic devices, for servers, workstations, smartphones, IoT devices, hard drives, etc.

So, we should pay attention to the consequences of something that in a normal environment might be very useful in our special purpose device. So we need to switch from a general purpose design, let's say, to a specific purpose one. I mentioned here two possible fire suppression systems that cause no harm to electronic devices to electronic devices. So, in case of a context, like a forensic lab, are much more appropriate than normal means. And this is from a physical security perspective. Of course, we have all our nice data-related possible countermeasures that we should adopt in our lab. And this may range, we have plenty of nice standards that prescribe that. We may consider the concept of segregated networks in terms of routing mechanisms this is basically VLAN concepts. Or in terms of security. And this means, for example, virtual driver network based on IDSEC, or TLS, or proprietary protocols. This may vary, we have also in the proprietary field a nice solution.

And adopt encrypted communication. Of course, this is, let's say, common sense, of course, from a security perspective. What is more subtle here is the fact that we should be well aware of the present standard level. Of course, we should be aware of the AS key length of the RSA or EC-DSA, whatever, for asymmetric encryption, key size to achieve our target security level. But we should be also aware of the time frame of the time frame of our lab. Meaning, for example, okay, we may adopt RSA with 4,000 key size, but if we are running an investigation for which the result might last for 20 years in case of a national secret, or for 10 years, or 30 years, etc.

We should be aware of the cryptographic science context in which we are going to operate. What I can mean here, I can mean our knowledge of quantum computing, quantum computing, that maybe in 10 years will make our RSA-based approach completely useless from a security perspective. Okay, so we should adopt proper encryption standard according to the time frame in which we are going to operate from the cryptographic perspective and from the protection of our evidence. And from the perspective of the protection of our evidence, we should approach the data with also the data as the physical, as I mentioned before, the physical level, with a kind of role-based, or attribute-based, depends on what we want, well, both of them are pretty useful and prescribed by international standards, access both to the network and to the data itself. So we should have a sophisticated range of roles, I mean, but also analysts, also supervisors, also presenters, also, well, business type of actions in order to set up different access to the different possible information. And also we may have different sub-networks separated among them for different phases of our investigation or for different sensitivity of management of data that are going to manage, to analyze, to explore. Okay, so we should have a very multifaceted approach to the permission that we may attach to any single relevant unity in our scenario, meaning tools that we are going to use, network that we are going to communicate with, data that we are going to access.

Yes. Well, we have a further aspects that relates also to the reaction of possible bad conditions that we need to consider in order to have a proper system that will continue to run and perform time-sensitive analysis, analysis. But I think that we can continue tomorrow with this, with this pond. For now, do you have any question or request of clarification about what we approached today? Pretty clear for today. Okay, so for today we stop here and we will continue.

