And yeah, I started the recording and I again mentioned what I said, please send, contact me in order to schedule as soon as possible your own work presentation if you still not did that. Because we have very, very few slots, a very small amount of possibilities now. Of course, there is the possibility to present the homework without presentation. If you already did that and you not have a chance to present it, well, this is acceptable. Of course, you are not eligible to the full score in terms of evaluation, but is for sure better than nothing.

Okay, so in any case, you will have, if you did a nice work, an amount of bonus point, a reduced amount of bonus point for the exam in any case. But yeah, please, if you are capable to present, please contact me and we will still have some possibilities to arrange that. Okay. Any questions for that? Everything clear? Yeah. I asked not all of you here if someone is willing to present today in case. In case. Well, just in order to wish you. I know, for example, that both of you are pretty close to the end of the work. So I asked for that, but you can enjoy your lesson without, without trouble for today.

Okay. Let's, let's continue with what we were discussing last week, which is the memory forensic. We approached the issue of acquiring the memory content and we introduced the dimension, the possibility. Well, we mentioned the fact that we may interact in a subtle and detailed way to the memory with a number of different tools. And also from just normal administration, system administration perspective or developer perspective, which is nice, which is good to understand some part, some details of how a program, how an application works, interacting with the, with the central memory.

And this is useful in some cases, but not very much in, in case of forensics, because allow just a limited access to, to, to memory. I mentioned, for example, GDP debugging tools that allow, to stop, to take some snapshot of some areas, but is not so useful as a final evidence in a court of justice. Because lack of some admissibility, because lack of admissibility requirements. Well, the, the, the, the system is, is, uh, running. So you may have a lot of, uh, modification ongoing to, to the central memory. Uh, and, uh, uh, and most of the time, the tool itself is not a certified, the not considered adequate to, to have, uh, a trial in a court of justice.

those are useful to get information from a forensic perspective but not to perform a sound forensic investigation. Also, we might acquire memory dumps from a system and verification tools that allow to dump a snapshot of the central memory in case of particular conditions, like a system crash. Again, those are useful, maybe useful for forensic investigation more than JDB in many cases, but again, they are a pretty sparse source of information. Again, it may lack the quality of robustness and certification in the perspective of legal requirements.

And so, again, it might be suitable for forensic use, but they are meant much more for the bagging and understanding of system behavior. For forensic investigation, there are tools that basically what we want to do most of the time, we want to acquire a full snapshot, including any part of the central memory. And for doing that, we need to use tools that create a snapshot quickly with the minimum amount of interaction with the operating system. And also, if possible, they store the snapshot of the memory on a safe place in order to avoid modification, while stored in a possibly untrusted storage, like maybe a device under investigation because owned by a suspect. I mentioned some tools for doing that. Lime is one of the most famous inside Linux systems, and in fact is a kernel module, so may interact directly, may acquire the entire content of the system run in real-time, and may also send, so we may have a kind of client server set up where an instance of Lime is waiting, listening on a forensic workstation, and a kind of module compared for the node that we need to investigate. So according to the kernel installed there, that acquire the central memory and send it through a socket, that any kind of tunnel to the demon waiting on the forensic machine. So acquiring the RAM quickly, soundly, and avoiding, in principle, as much as possible, the corruption, the manipulation of the content acquired. And so it's a nice and famous tool to use. Also, well, Lime provides a format which has a minimum amount of, well, that stores all content acquired with no modification, plus some, well, in a specific format, that is used also by other tools that allow to interact and mostly analyze the content of the memory.

One of the most famous, maybe the most famous one, is the volatility tool, which performs the second part of a forensic investigation memory-centered. We acquired the content of the memory by using a tool like Lime, and we can, acting on this snapshot of the memory, perform analysis through a tool like Volatility, that is, well, basically, an open source framework, composed by main plugins, and is extensible as well. So you may develop a new plugin plugin for doing a specific kind of analysis that is suitable for digital forensic investigation.

of course, you may use a tool like Volatility, also just for debugging purposes, because allow a very deep capacity to acquire information, and also correlate and highlight inconsistencies inside the content of the RAM, and also allow to acquire information information, information that are not, that are in principle, no longer available in memory, but going through the snapshot might identify that. Also, well, in the central, in the RAM, you have the same principle that you have on a storage drive, meaning when you delete an information, the information is not erased just after the nominal deletion. For example, you unload the information, unload the application from the central memory, you just put a kind of flag that says, okay, this memory is available, but until it's not overwritten by a new application, by a new set of data coming from the computation or from the loading of modules, programs, whatever, configurations, etc., from the storage, that piece of RAM still maintain the previous information, and thanks to a snapshot acquired and then a subsequent analysis to using a tool like Volatility, we might find out also this information that, in principle, should no longer be there.

And, well, in principle, a tool like a framework like Volatility is capable to acquire and to analyze the content from many different platforms, like Windows, Linux, macOS, mobile, etc., but depending on the system in any case, we need to provide to the Volatility framework more, well, more or less information in order to allow the framework to understand how is organized the content of the menu. Another important concept is that any operating system organizes the central memory in a different way, where is the kernel part of data, code, the private address, how, well, little or big Indian, well, depending on the architecture, of course, etc., we might have a very consistent amount of differences in the organization of the same content from an abstract perspective.

Volatility need to know that, and I'm mentioning this point because in some cases it's not completely straightforward the understanding the acquisition and the possibility to analyze the content, and in some cases you need to derive, while thanks to other tools that interact with the operating system at a pretty low level, the format, like, for example, the symbols used, the symbol table, or a JSON format organization of the content, and so on. And this, in some cases, is an input for Volatility, an input that can be corroborated by other tools present in Volatility that allow for the analysis and from initial acquisition of information about the memory, the memory organization.

And, well, just to provide you some examples in this slide that I mostly mentioned, what I just described, and for example, you may ask, thanks to, this is the format of Volatility command named Volatility, this is a version 2, even now we have basically two versions of the framework still used, the version 2, the version 2, the old one, that in some cases that is getting less supported, but still may be valid, in that case we have this kind of format, name of the framework, input that needs to be examined, and then the plugin that we want to use in order to acquire information.

In this example, in this example, in the first example of comment here, we are scanning, we ask Volatility to scan the memory image in order to acquire information on what is the profile that can be found inside the snapshot, and so can scan, trying to acquire information that helps you to understand some content. And depending on the system, this may be or may be not enough in order to examine the content of the memory. For example, if we hypothesize a window system, we have, we might have just information on the profile type, the Volatility Framework version 2 works on profile, that explains what is the internal structure, so after imaging info, we might be able to find out that this is an image of a Windows 10 system, and then specific architecture, for example, and then specific architecture, X64, for example, and then we might use other plugins that, for example, find out the process list, whatever, or find the whole scan, the memory for acquisition, for identification of malware remnants, for example, and we might use the subsequent command, and we might use the subsequent command, explaining to Volatility by indicating the profile that we are working on a Windows 10 X64 architecture, plus more information on the version, patch, etc., and then the plugin, for example, find out the process list, for example.

A difference, Volatility version 3, instead uses symbol tables instead of simple profiles that allow, that are kind of using structured mapping of the structure of the memory, and then, if you want, you provide to the Volatility Framework more detailed information that allow to not set up a huge amount of profiles, but instead pass in a more detailed map of the organization of the memory. In case of Windows, again, we have a pretty much simple walk, in the sense that we might download the symbol table for a specific version of Windows, pretty much you will find easily that on Windows sites, instead, in case of Unix-like system, basically, you will have to build it, interacting with the installation, according to the specific, where you have installed the version of the kernel that you want to analyze, in order to derive the correct symbol table, that we can then use as input for your Volatility Framework.

Okay, this is, I mentioned this because, in practice, I noticed many, many times that this first operation is one of the most complex, not easy, not easy, might require even days of work in some specific cases. Nowadays, it's getting more and more automated, and so this difficulty is decreasing, but still is a step that digital forensic analysts need to know in some detail. About the plugin of Volatility, we have a rich set of, each plugin basically provides a specific function, a specific task, and we have a rich and growing set of plugins that allow, for example, to find out information on the branding processes, on some network behavior, like open connections, some, what is the status of the system in terms of loaded modules and external libraries, as well as presence of very random parts inside the memory that might indicate encryption keys, encrypted data, and so on, something strange in general.

And, well, of course, Volatility is very, very used inside of digital forensics, so it's a sound tool that not altered during this analysis the content of the memory, so it can be replicable and sound as well. And, as you may imagine, we may use a tool like Volatility for many different cases, also not strictly forensic, as I mentioned, like encryption, cryptographic analysis, or system debug, not related to a forensic case, or understanding the activity of a system in order to improve the performance. No very specific system administrator tasks, but, of course, we may have a huge number of useful applications for Volatility, like identification of malware infection.

We have a specific Volatility module, that is suitable for identification of traces of possible behavior of a malware. And, in more general terms, we may apply a behavioral analysis, thanks to the analysis of the central memory, because we may see the creation process, seeing the structure that connects a parent process to a child process, many times with associated timestamps, many times with associated timestamps, that allow for the identification of this activity, as well as if there are, and this is a malware indicator, there are a process child without an alive parent. An example of why this is related to malware, because, for example, in modern malware, we have often a kind of loader that is more quiet, more nice piece of code, that avoids identification of strange malicious activities, or malware.

Or malware signature, and instead, as the only task to acquire the malware core, the malware bad part, and download onto the system, and then terminate itself. And this is why it may happen a parent process, which is no longer there, with a still alive child process, that is the malware itself, that is trying to infect the system as much as possible. And of course, this is valid for any kind of malware, or rootkit, or malicious application that tries to influence, in a not proper way, the content, the malware content, the memory content of a device.

And well, just a mention here, we have also other tools, for sometimes recall, which is a kind of fork for the volatility framework, for sometimes, and with a kind of nice redesign, and pretty effective, tool, that for sometimes was a very interesting one, and respected one in digital investigation. Nowadays, it's not well spreading. We see that volatility is somehow nice enough. And with a solid community, and with a solid community that continues to develop it. So recall exists, but I have to say, there is less excitement around that, but might be a tool for memory analysis that, in some cases, might be worth to see.

Okay, well, very quickly, before leaving room to the home of presentation for today, I have, just in order to be more practical, let's say, about volatility, I have a set of slides that are just a simple example, more practical example, example about how to use volatility with comments in a possible case, not very much complex here, just a possible step-by-step example. So, for example, we should start with a kind of initial examination of the system, a kind of triage in order to understand, well, first of all, better, what is the content, the organization of the image itself.

And we have here, for volatility 3, the first command that exactly finds out the information on the content of the RAM that we have. So, for example, allow for example, allow for example, allow for example, to identify the operating system version, to identify some metadata like the hour, the precise time of the snapshot in which the content was acquired. And then we may start, and then we may start, well, still, for doing an examination, we may also understand the posture, to identify the system, which is for example, windows in this case, then we can identify the configuration of the windows.

For example, for example, for example, for example, we are using here, the registry hive list, meaning, maybe you know that the hive, the constellation of files that describe the different registry part inside, inside of windows, each dedicated to a different stack of information. For example, for example, for example, for example, user data, a specific I, the user data is acquired when I use a login into a windows, a windows system. And so, a piece of information. And so, a piece of information that is useful to know when we start is understanding the hive list according to the snapshot of memory that we have. This, well, initial investigation allow also to, in some cases, identify larger information.

What is the configuration? What is the configuration? Maybe if this is, there are artifacts related to virtualization, because this is another important point. Maybe inside a virtualization artifact, we may have another source of information and we need a different, we may detach that part of virtualized artifact and perform, for example, a volatility analysis using a different symbol table. Because the virtualized environment is different, for example, that's why I mentioned this initial information. Well, we have the picture of what is the system, then we may, and what is the general configuration of the system, we may then try to find out what is the picture of the processes.

Inside Volatility, we have different plugins that perform different, because we have different structures, in some cases, with redundant information inside the memory. We may have different plugins that analyze the content of the memory, for example, for processes using different structures in which the central memory is organized. And we have, and we have, for example, the PS list that go through the double linked list of processes in order to find out the correlation between processes. We have the plugin PS3 that acquire information in the internal tree of processes in order to identify parent-child hierarchy of all the processes.

As you may have, as you may have, as you may, well, guess, you can see that different plugins perform different analysis and may miss knowingly some parts, for example, the PS list perform the work through the double linked list. And is aware that it is aware that it might miss unlinked processes that we instead may find with the plugin PS Scan. scan. But again, why we should not use direct EPS scan? Well, because the differences between the outputs of these tools might give information, indicator compromise, red flags, in order to understand that something is not properly ongoing, like the presence of a rootkit activity.

And the same, I already mentioned that, if we have a not properly organized parent-child hierarchy, and if we have a strange... We, of course, analyzing the content of the memory, we find out, according to the organization of a structure, a lot of metadata, like, for example, the path of an application. Again, if we have something that is expected to be a system service, and instead is running from a user folder, this is again a strange fact. And any kind of anomaly here, might be an indicator of compromise. Also, if we have a child which has a very unexpected parent, this is again a source of possible red flags, and so on. Of course, we, from the process, we can find the information. Also, from the normal content, the ancillary content that the operating system provides can perform a lot of information, like the loaded modules, or dynamic libraries, in case of Windows. We have a nice structure inside Windows, which is the Virtual Address Descriptor tree, that is a per-process data structure that describes the virtual addressing of a process. And then, it might be very helpful, for example, to identify what? To identify, for example, something strange, some strange location of memory that are used inside a process that may be a source of malware information, because it can be used to inject malicious content, for example, pointing to an inappropriate memory region that contain a malware executable, or also maybe a stranger presence of characteristics, let's say, like the mutable exclusion asked by an application that may be unusual, but it is instead very usual for malware. Why? In order to prevent, because a malware is willing to prevent multiple, most of the time, multiple replication inside an infected host, in order to not provoke a kind of denial of service, which might be nice from an attacker perspective, but also stop the possibility to to propagate and to maliciously use that node. So, many times the malware tool has a mutex in place, in order to prevent the running of multiple instances of the same malware on a specific node.

And, well, of course, we can find out network information that allows to identify connection to a remote server, that might be, again, an indication of action of a malware, and in this case, might be nice. You can perform in very deep this kind of analysis without the necessity to capture network traffic, but of course, you can complement also, in case you can, the sniffing on network, the sniffing action on network activities, in order to find out information. But, again, by only identifying what's inside the memory, we might find out a lot of information related to network activities, like remote destination, like listening services, and, of course, the related process that are listening to a specific port, that, again, might be an indicator for a malicious behavior. And, well, in Cyborg Affiliacy, as I mentioned before, we may use specific plugins that exactly try to perform higher level analysis, in order, for example, to see the insertion of content in two different processes and then identify a malicious behavior. The analysis I already mentioned before, the analysis of the hives, that is one of the last part. We, of course, we should do this kind of malfind operation if we suspect of a malicious activity. But, in general, instead, the registry analysis is something that is good to be done in many multiple cases, in order, again, to identify the presence of malware, like how to run. This is particularly important for files, for modern malware that leave little traces on storage, but necessarily leaves trace on the central memory. And then, from the hive list, then we might find specific information on registries that try to run at every new switch on of the system. And we can find this kind of information inside the content of the hive in the central memory. And, well, plus the fact that we may find this information even if in ancient status, even if no longer present on the active memory, because it's still not flashed from the central memory, just marked as deleted, as no longer valid. And this is, in a nice pipeline, we may use volatility not as a final tool, but as an intermediate one. We can extract specific parts of the central memory, and we may use, after that, specific tools like Virustotal, Ghidra, etc., in order to perform specific malware identification, if we suspect, if we had some information, if we had some clue that a malware can be present, or just to be sure, in case, since we can perform this operation in parallel, while we, for example, are doing, we can extract modules, specific parts of the memory, submit them to other tools, and continue to perform analysis on the processes, network activities, and so on. And the final outcome for this nice set of operation should be a sound timeline construction. Using Volacity, we may find out, well, a pretty nice timeline.

We also have plugins in order to do that. And, but of course, this is only for memory, of the information, that we can finally, inside a network, and a forensic analysis, correlate with network, file system, and storage, and information coming from, maybe, different nodes, memory, forensic analysis. And we have here a resume for that. Questions? Volatility is a very nice tool to use. If no question, I will leave the room for the homework presentation that, by the way, also, in some part, use volatility. So, it's a nice example of usage of that.

I should have already uploaded the presentation on the portal, right? Perfect. Now, let's go, Jess. Yes. So, my homework was about multi-layered digital forensics, and I performed different kinds of attacks that allowed me to perform different analysis from the scenario, which I performed a disk-based attack. So, I used auto-opsy for analysis. Then, I went to analyst an IOSMV, in which I performed by OSMV malware. And the difference between scenario B and B.1 is the potential in which the malware was based. And the last two, I used auto-opsy for scenario B, while from B.1, since I was on ARM64, I used auto-opsy and ARM. Then, for scenario C, I performed another kind of attack, which was a computer kit, which was on an artificial machine. And the aim of the project was to demonstrate how different attacks left some traces on different data of the memory. In some way, as I said before, we left some traces on the disk, and the attack chain was that I used an agent of the gas bar, which is metapital, in which I developed at the beginning a payload, and this payload was in the head with the MSF10 Venom, in which I specified the architecture, the agent that was using, which was metapital, and then what kind of attack it wanted to perform. And it was the RSDCP, which means that the malicious payload could create the protection with the charter. In fact, here I specified the IP address and the port. So then, instead of two, the victim had downloaded the malicious payload, and the attacker in order to masculate the payload, called it update. Then I gave it a mission to execute it, and I got to that when the victim executed the payload, it played a connection directly with the attacker. The attacker with this foundation was able to enter the victim system, so it was able to perform different kind of commands, like the contact commands, in which it tried to modify the contract file, which is a file that is executed for autonomous commands on Linux. And the attacker specifies that every time that the machine recruited, it needed to execute the active file, which was the malicious payload. And in order to write to override some lines of the contact file, that will release some crash, in this case, it specifies that in case there is some problem, then that are null, or everything that was written there.

And other attack also, it installed the dropper suite, which is a suite that contains the command curl, checkmod, and whether they want to execute this suite. In this case, it is a suite that in case that the file, maybe it was modified, or it was deleted, then by just executing this suite, it will download again the malicious payload on the client, and the client would be contacted directly to the attacker. For this kind of attack, there was, of course, all evidence in the disk, so we used the autopsy for the analysis, and of course, we can see immediately that the malicious state of which the target defined name as update was there in the desktop. We can see, of course, the dimension of the file, and the way it was created. Then, of course, we identified also the prescriptor. And by analyzing the content file, we can see that there is the modification time, and then we can see that there is the command. And then the target from the command history, in order to save all the traces of the terminal over the dash history file. And like that, we can see that we can construct the attack, since the attacker was connected to the victim terminal system.

Why? For scenario B, they use another random attack, which is a malware file itself, which means that it doesn't leave any interest in the disk, but it is performed that way. So like that, the aim was to demonstrate how the density of the disk is not sufficient in some cases, and in this case, we had to analyze that one. The attack chain is pretty similar to before, but in this case, we are now a Windows machine, so we needed to specify the MTC for architecture. And in this case, since we are a Windows machine for the victim, at the beginning, the defender was not disabled. So it means that when the attacker tried to send the malicious file client to the victim, the defender sent this to the AMSI, which is which analyzes the content of the payload, and AMSI tried it as a malicious content, so it didn't to run the malicious payload. After the same thing with this defender, then there was the payload in this selection, in which we can see that there is the command ex, which means invoke expression.

It means that it immediately downloaded the malicious failed, and without downloading it to the disk, it will have still directly run. Like that, there was the creation of the connection between the victim and the attacker, and then that entered in the system of the victim. In fact, we can see that there is a system of 64, which is the result of the cc-info command, and we can see that at the end, the attacker created the shell of the victim system. So what we expected is that, yes, the process related to the connection between the client and the server, but also the creation of another shell because it was created by the attacker. And for the database, of course, we captured the RAM through the backup software, and then sent it to the analyst, and the analyst used the quality tree to reconstruct the attacker. And the main tracking that we used were a case list, which is the plugin that read the task structure. Task structure is a double thing that contains all the processes that are present in the RAM and the mobile entity of the capture. And the ones which we are more interested in are PID-795, since it is the one that is in the publisher that blocked the attempt to install the malicious payload. Then we have the one in which we executed the attack, which is the PID-3228, and then we can see that there is a command that's with PID-32220. It means that as a CD4 attacker, firstly, we have downloaded the machine fail on the power shell, which is PID-3228, and then executed the command shell. And then from this command shell, it created a new power shell, which is the one with PID-32220. In fact, then it was something that we can see that from PID-3228 in which we can see that from PID-3228, the PID-32220, the one with PID-32220 is the one in which we created a new shell by the target, and the other one is a secondary instance.

It is just a secondary power shell in which, in some cases, to avoid the crash of the power shell, when we execute some commands that could be dangerous in a certain sense. We have a secondary shell in which we execute this kind of command in order to avoid to disrupt the first shell. Then, since there wasn't the connection between the client and the server, with Windows next start, we are able to see that there is a DCP connection that was from the client to the server, so from the link to the server, since it was the link that requested the connection as soon as it downloaded the payload. And then we have the command line in which, by analyzing, of course, the one of the publisher, we can see that there is the command that led to the installation of the initials' payload without any traces on the disk. One of the most important was the map and planina, which is the one that analyzes the private and memory regions, which have we divide and execute the previous tests. And this planina contains some tasks in which, for example, for all of those three, we have an advanced bug, which means that there was an execution of a payload that didn't have any correspondence on the disk. So, as we can see, there is the power function X with this field, which is the one that downloaded the initials' payload. And you can see also that there are information in the MZ header. The MZ header is an header that indicates that there was the execution of an end file, of an executable file. And this, of course, confirms that there was this DLL injection, in which there was an execution of this field without any emphasis on the disk.

Then, of course, there was information related to the powershell data that blocked the networks at length, and then the secondary powershell as well. While this was with the LPD3, but on disk with the autopsy, we can see that by looking at the prefecture, which created an instance for each powershell that we created, there was, of course, the integration of those powers that we have found in the same task that we have found in Moradigi. And then, the tender, the obviously, the tender thoughts that we have found in here, planned, of course, the merchant's content. Also related to the single powershell, we can see, of course, that there are some information here, and of course, the regular merchant accounts related to the runtime, which is the file that we added once we captured the runtime. Things that we have not found are processed and downloads of the managers failed. There is no shortcut that is available, since every time that we execute the file, there is correlated with shortcut, usually. And something that is causing the runtime memory register, which usually in a disk analysis is analyzed, but in this case, since there is an interaction with the GUI, because it was automatically from online, it doesn't exist there. So, we can create the time map by find both the findings of Moradigi and autopsy, and like that, we can see how with both the things that we found with PS list, or without autopsy, and all the other things we were able to paint the whole attack, until we further forced the runtime. This was nice and clean when we were on Windows.

Then we moved to ARM64, and it was pretty bad, as you can say. The aim was to perform the attack on Windows 11 machine around 64, but we had some kind of problems. The first one was when we tried to perform the attack on Windows 11 machine around 64, the attack went well, then we moved to capture the RAM, but with Win10, FPK, all those software were not able to make the run, and this would be because those software work, they needed to load a driver that gave them permission to make the dump at Win0. The main problem is that Win0 is ARM64, and then at least space, which is a Win3, we have ARM64. So, they tried to load the camera to make the D64 to one ARM64, which of course we rejected it. So, the main problem was that we could have not taken the data of the RAM, because they didn't have any permission. So, then we moved to boot 164, in which the attack was pretty the same. What was different is, of course, that we used the ESCOR 1, that we saved the malicious failure on the temporary folder, but the main problem was for what I did. What I did for the work needs a single table. A single table is used in order to translate to what there is inside the RAM dump to understand how the camera works within the version of the camera and how to translate what what defines to the processes. The main problem in this case was that the version of the camera that I had in my system didn't add anything about the system that was just related. It means that when I check to install them, of course, you return to the 404 not found. Then, I tried to use the activity only with the system map, because when you know that it was to create this single table, it means system map and file. But system map gave me some information, but in order to create the whole structure, the whole layout, I needed the file. So, in order to get the file, I extracted the file, which is a file that is compressed in the camera. The main problem is that even if I tried to extract the economic recovery from this. For this reason, in order to create this simple table, we needed to find out what versions of the kernel, we needed to find out what versions of the kernel were compatible with the bug system. So, after the search, I found out that the version 22.04 was compatible with the bug system. So, I created a machine with that version, installed the packages of the bug, and they definitely created a simple table. But the problem was that even if we added a simple table, the logiki 3 does work on AMP64, because the logiki in order to work, so it needs to get information from some registers. The main problem is that logiki 3 does have the registers that are related to AMP64, which are the TIP-0, TIP-1. It means that logiki 3 does have the double and the simple table, it was not able to run on AMP64 architecture. And for this reason, in order to perform some kind of analysis, we needed to perform a low-stream card, in which the one that gave us more results was the one program, which we try to use to find out the ideologies of the target. And like that, we find out, of course, the current format, the connection TCP, and this method, which is the most important, since the method is an agent of the program and it gave us information for the attack. And then, we find out some kind of some other information in the TIP-1, which is the one in which we say that it might stay in the TIP-1 machine. We could use other tools in the TIP-1 decision analysis, we may have AVML. The big problem of AVML is that we use in order to get all the processes of the PROC command, which in this case is pretty good, but in case we then shift to the TIP-1 attack, there, then it is not possible. Then, for the analysis, instead of the TIP-1, we could use a better proper test, which doesn't require a single table, so maybe it is better than the RAP in this case, even if that we politically find out that there was an update of them. And therefore, it would be good, but for RMP-64, it doesn't have, it is not updated, and also it works in the RMP-64 to the TIP-1 machine. And one that wouldn't work better was a lot of GDP scripting, but of course, it requires a lot of analysis and a lot of non-scripting to find out of course the information of the variable. The TIP-1 scenario is the one in DECOM. DECOM is an attack in which we try to hide the process from data structure. As I said before, all the processes are linked in a structure, which is a double C, a double-needed circuit process, and they are created from each other using a pointer. There is a previous pointer, next pointer, and the aim is to remove this process from the integrated list, so it still exists, it works, it uses a secure resources, but it doesn't belong to the list. So all the information into the process we get from this list, and the comments like, yes, in the broker, in order to get information into the process, we perform a system call. The system call will be the list, and will be the result of what we have found in the list. The pack is pretty much the same, it's always a malware file as a pack, and in this case we, of course, we have more information to the process, because when we perform the pack, we did this command, we find out that the process of the attack was 1923, and with this command, of course, we get some information to the process. Then, we perform, of course, the dump of the RAM, in order to get the before and after the attack to make some comparisons. After that, we loaded our kernel module, which is called YAMLFIN. YAMLFIN is a load kit that is to hide a specific process.

In order to load YAMLFIN, we, of course, got the students mod, and when we debug the kernel, it specifies that it was also missing the module. Inside the module means, of course, it is a module which doesn't have any signature, which it should be passed, because it is not verified. And then, I'm feeling that we have the packet with the signature 31, so it's trying, of course, the feed that we want to hide, and like that, after going to the kill, we can see that when we perform the test logs, we don't have any information related to the process, but, of course, if you've got the proper command, the process is still explicit. So, we demonstrated like that, that the process was hidden, that the speed was running. So, by doing the analysis, and we have, of course, the dump of after the command. By the analysis of the community, we can see that, of course, the signature demand bar there are different, since YAMLFIN, that is a lot of working module, it includes the other programing for extra offset. And what we thought we could have seen was that, in this case, this should leave the task structure, and the process should then be hidden from task structure, it should be isolated from task structure, with all that, in this case, the process was not visible. But, by doing the test list of both pre-decom and post-decom, we found out that the process was still there. Like that, we understood that YAMLFIN doesn't work directly on task structure, but it works on the system code. So, when we were found, yes, from commands, the system code was modified by YAMLFIN. So, in this case, they didn't show the process of the attacker, of the attack, but by doing the test list, since it works directly on task structure, the process will still be spoiled.

Then, we use the PSCAN, since PSCAN should be the one that would find the difference between PSCAN and PSCAN. PSCAN doesn't look on the list, but it looks directly put around, so it forms a scan of the run. So, even if the process was not in the list, then it should be found. But, something that we didn't expect was the analysis of the module that gave us some kind of information, because if we expect that the process was hidden from the list, this vehicle was reflected upon the module. It means that also the modules that are loaded on the kernel are organized in a list, which you can see correlates with this bid-directional. And, in this case, by doing S-mod, S-mod, it trains over this list, and we take all the modules that were on the list. And, in post-e-com, of course, the gameplay shouldn't be in there, but as we can see, there was no trace of e-com. Then, with the check modules, which, as PSCAN works over the run, so, it informs the scan of the run, and gets all the modules that were in the run at the time of the dump, even if they didn't belong to the list. And, check modules, specifications, search for the modules that were not on the list. In this case, you detect the Amphine, which is, of course, the memory agents, and we specify, also, that these are some modules, so they should not be tested.

So, sometimes, we might say that using just one tool for the memory analysis is not sufficient. Maybe, sometimes, we need to go more deep from disk to RAM, and also in the content level. And, something that we need to consider is the fact that ARM64 is needed for this kind of search. In fact, we need to say that some tools that maybe are famous and are widely used in the forensic world nowadays for ARM64 are still not available. So, in this case, these are not worth me to consider. Also, for the basic analysis, we might find, we saw that, with the history command, or other commands, we left some traces. And, I thought, in order to not leave the certain traces of the command requirements that were in the terminal, we could answer this file, which is a command that, first of the bar, should not save any command on the terminal. We specify, maybe, how many commands we want to save, the generation of the file that saved the command. And, also, in this memory, we could have analyzed the F3 for the normal, which contains, of course, information in the F3 system, both the data blocks and the metadata.

So, in this case, it was not necessary, because this is useful for the, when the target tries to delete some information, and now, really, thanks to Xt for, are able to record that, with some, you know, tools and commands like Xt for magic. But, in this case, since that target did anything, it was not necessary. So, this is, yeah. Oh, well, yeah. I guess that your presentation was so outstanding that you mute your audience. That's why, please, again. Well, I'm very delighted by your presentation, because compliments in an excellent way what we discussed with a lot of practical details that, well, give a very, very, very nice overview of real, on-field problems, practical problems, but also theoretical, give suggestions on theoretical approaches. So, I'm wondering if anyone wants to ask questions. I think we can, we should discuss for, well, at least, at least an hour on such a good amount of rich material, but maybe your classmates are tired, and I'm not sure if someone wants to ask anything, as I guess. And so, that's it. For today, we're done with this excellent work. Thank you again.

And that's it. Just the third one. I think it's well worth it. And for today, it's all. We will see tomorrow for the map. Thanks.
