Okay, I think, okay, let's see if it works, it can work for the lesson, the microphone. I think we can start before starting, just a check on the lab allocation, well, and some clarification since I received some questions, some requests for clarification for the lab, just some notes. Well, about the allocation, I can appreciate that many groups seems pretty much ready in the sense that they are in the proper number of members from four to six. I see that there are still some not allocated students that I think want to want to join since they are written down on the excel but not in a group of the proper shape, let's say.

And well, very easily, if until tomorrow, if you want, you can try right now, but until tomorrow, you will not be in a group and of course you want to join, to run the lab, we can join on the fly, the spouse member, the spouse student inside the one or more group, pretty much in any algorithmic way. In the sense, I have some, if in case I have some place in some group, I can put the ones that are together and put, for example, in a group of four, in the first group of four, if two students are together, the two students together, in order to have all groups from four to six.

Okay, so you still have some time if you want to, until tomorrow basically, if you want to find a a willing allocation, let me say, otherwise we will basically join. But I don't think this will be a big deal, let's say, in the sense that just you will run the lab together, but you can have many, well, you can manage without particular issue any degree of independency inside the lab. So it's not a not a big deal in any case. And this is a first note from myself. Another note is if you need to run all the series of labs, if you want the bonus points, no, no, anyone achieve the degree I said independently. So if you want, you might just run one of them, two, three, any number. And of course, you will have the amount independently of each run, which is just one quarter for each, in the total possible amount that I said. And okay, this is a note.

Let me remember, I already said that, well, okay, you may have a name on the group, on your group, on your group, which is nice. I would prefer in English, but it's not a mandatory requirement. And well, I see until up to now, just one name, which is very nice from my perspective, but this is optional as you want. I think it's nice. You may have also a logo, but it's even more optional than that. Up to you, of course. Perfect. Wonderful. I love that. You can, if you want. If you want. It's just a suggestion. But yes, since this is just our, well, the rule of the course mandate the fact that the lesson and the, well, the exam, etc, etc, need to be run in English. But this is just for our internal, well, purpose. So I think can be outside, the normal rules of the course. So yeah, it's fine. And well, I see that you have a strong motivation in doing that. So for me, it's perfectly fine. Okay, there was another thing about the lab that I'm not remembering right now. Any question about the lab? No particular question?

Okay, well, I think that there were one more clarification, but I do not remember at the moment. But in case, I will say directly tomorrow. Ah, yeah, another stuff. In any case, probably I already said that, but you will need to deliver me putting that on the portal in the elaborati section. I don't know if it's translated in English. Well, I see elaborati as entry, where you can put your report, your finding, maybe some evidence, whatever you want, some extra note, whatever, in an archive, in a zip file, basically. At the end of the lab, this is the first draft, and then during the next week, if you want another archive with further remarks, clarification, improvement on what you did. But I need both of them. Both of them will be part of the evaluation. Well, not exactly. The second improvement is optional, just in case you think you have something to add, something to improve, something to clarify more, etc. The first, at the end of the three hours, instead is mandatory. I require that for the evaluation. Okay? Well, if you want, you can deliver another point. I said that to someone that says, and this is another point, that asks me if I can run in exercise also from remote, also remotely.

Yeah, it is possible, but the most part of the group should be here in the room. Okay? You can work with someone else, well, outside, in any place, basically. But I need the core here. And, well, this means also that someone from remote, this is completely up to you. I, well, I do not have any requirement on that. Maybe someone from remote can work more if the interaction would be not so effective with people here. Can work, again, I repeat, it's just a suggestion, not, well, anything mandatory. Can work more on the improvement that will be delivered in the rest of the week, for the improved version. Okay?

For example, this is something that can be doable, that can happen. I do not have anything, any particular remark on that. Okay? As you want. Inside the group, you can split the work in any way you want. You can do the same thing in order to refine them, split the work in different members. Whatever you want. From my perspective, it is interesting to see, to see, meaning receive, and evaluate the result of this different type of organization inside groups. And this is also why I ask the kind of self-evaluation that describes each member to what part contributed to. Okay? That's to explain more or less my idea on that. Okay? Questions on that? Okay, we will see tomorrow for the first lab, if anything more to clarify, will be required. Okay, we can get back.

Yes, please. Well, there will be some kind, let me say, for some part, yes. Ah, yeah, this is correct. For some part, yes, but again, well, I'm mixed. Some part is more fixed, more required in terms of the forms than others, so I will provide some... something that I expect to be filled by you. But apart that, you can enrich with external input, external document, without particular problem. Meaning that the amount of file, the form of file, apart a kind of core that I require, for example, the self-evaluation, I require some specific domains for the self-evaluation, will be up to you. And this will be also part of the evaluation. Meaning that the completeness, the clarity, the accuracy of what you provide is part of the evaluation. Okay?

Tomorrow will be more clear with the actual subset of templates. Not really, but it's not bad that you have... well, this is something practical that I've seen, but it's interesting again. There are many dimensions of 4G that are interesting to cope with. Because my idea is somehow trying to depict a kind of realistic in terms of difficulties environment, meaning that you might have some issues that are outside the strict part of the lab, but that in reality are something that you might encounter during an investigation, during an exercise. And that, in my opinion, is useful to to manage. This is to say that, for example, in some exercise, I found that operating systems like Mac OS X can be problematic because you may have difficulties in running virtual machines. Okay? So, it might be difficult to proceed with some part of the exercise, but this is part, in my opinion, of something interesting from an educational perspective to manage.

So, this is... and in general, this is valid for many aspects. Okay? So, it's not really required, but might make some... how to say... might make some steps more easy, but having a Mac OS X allow to solve further problems and get extra, let me say, points, extra nice evaluation. If you encounter a real complexity that you can manage and, well, accomplish somehow. Okay? For a question? Yes, please. How many labs there will be? Four. Four labs. They will be always on Wednesday or maybe also Friday?

In... well, in my... according to my plan, will be always on Wednesday, but in case of issues, maybe from myself or from Professor Vartaga, like the last Friday in which he was... he has some problems, some specific issues, so we need to skip the lesson, we can rearrange and in case this happens exactly in on... well, at the end, let me say, where we do not have time to skip on a Wednesday, the final lab, we may have it on Friday, but at the moment the plan is having all of them on Wednesday. Do you have any specific concern on that? No. Okay, just to know, yes. I... next week, I think, or at the... likely, well, at the end of this week, I will provide the... the whole schedule of... of the different labs.

Okay? Yes? Not directly after, because I need also the final... the... the possible draft to... to evaluate. I... I don't plan to... yeah, that's basically it. So, it will be for sure after... if you... how to organize... if you... when you say, okay, we do not need to provide any further material, I will start the evaluation for that group, and then I will provide evaluation as soon as possible, but I prefer to acquire all the material from all the groups as much as possible. If one, two, maybe three groups will be still missing, I have enough material to make a fair evaluation before I make that. So, basically, when I will have most of the final version of the student, I will emit my evaluation on... on the different labs. Okay? Okay.

Well, as a kind of overall criteria, my... I will give the maximum... in general, I give the... the max grade... very... very... it's... it's a... how to say... a... very rare... event. As it's very rare that I give the minimum evaluation. Okay? Because for the max, I expect... an incredibly accurate and... detailed and aware... kind of report that convinced me that the... the group must... all the aspects of... of the exercise, which is... a... very unlikely at this point. Okay? But this is because it's a kind of...

a symptom that... that... that is something that you should tend to... okay? As well, even if you... if you have a very poor... a very poor... evaluation... a very poor... set of exercise, I... think I'll be able to... to find something interesting that... should be more... more... more... evolved, let's say... that... uh... is not... exactly... as zero. So... as well... is... unlikely... that you will have... uh... the... the... the minimum... evaluation for the same reason. They are kind of... extreme... in... in... in the range... that... that... uh... is... hard to... to... to reach... either. Okay? Just... uh... in order to understand. But I... well... this is expected... because I put... uh... in my opinion...

a very... large amount of... bonus points for this lab... exactly for... uh... for this very reason. So... I consider that. Yes? How many points do you have? And if... if they are equal to all labs... They are equal for all labs... and... are from... zero... to... zero dot five point... for... uh... each lab. So... in... uh... in... uh... in total, you may have... two points... for... uh... uh... perfect... uh... for... uh... perfect... uh... for... uh... for a perfect... uh... lab. Okay? For a perfect... series of... uh... Hernan lab. What... uh... I expect from very... good students... is... uh... around... one dot five... one dot six... uh... points... uh... as a final remark. Okay? Okay. Other question? Okay. We will see tomorrow. Okay. We can get back to...

our theoretical discussion. Okay? Last time... we were... talking about... uh... the file system. We... we addressed the point of... uh... metadata... the... the... um... the structure of... uh... storage devices. We likely will have... uh... questions? No? Likely we will have some more today... some more discussion on... uh... peculiarities in some cases... of... uh... uh... uh... of some types... uh... of... uh... storage... uh... modern... modern ones... uh... that introduce... uh... well... pretty interesting... uh... aspects... uh... that... uh... some of you already managed... uh... in... in... in some cases...

and... after the storage... uh... with the... the beginning part... uh... we... we... we have... uh... uh... uh... the... the must-put record... uh... in the historical... uh... devices... uh... we have... uh... the... GPT... uh... in modern standard that... uh... provide some... uh... initial information... useful to run... uh... any... any kind of... uh... of operating system... we have... uh... partitions... uh... that... uh... might be... organized... depending on the... uh... part-system type... and we had... last time... also... uh... sample... an example... of... uh... specific file system... which is... uh... a very old... and simple one... and... because that... is pretty useful...

useful... to have... uh... an understanding... of... uh... of... uh... of the internals... uh... and... uh... uh... comprehension... uh... about... uh... how... and why... we can... uh... find... uh... data... uh... in... uh... even... after... uh... the... deletion... of... uh... of... uh... of... uh... file... um... another example... that example was... uh... from an educational perspective... useful... in my opinion... but it's not very... up-to-date... nowadays... nowadays... because... uh... we have... uh... much more complex... uh... operating... much more complex... uh... well... operating system... and... operating system... two-file system... interaction... So... another... uh... not... uh... notable example... from... uh... Windows... uh... uh... domain... is the... another... old one... but still... uh... very...

uh... but much more... evolved... and robust... is the... NT... FX... that comes from the... old operating system... become... Windows... Window isvio... uh... and... uh... an older... version of the... uh... business oriented... uh... flavor of the Windows operating... of the Windows operating system... at that time... was... uh... there were... um... two... uh... two big... uh... in Microsoft... uh... based operating... operating system, Windows 95, 98, XP, that were targeted to consumer, to normal end-user usage, and business-oriented, meaning servers, complex organization, complex tasks, which is the anti-Windows, anti-technology, if I'm not wrong, generation. And well, at that time it was clear that the file system used by the consumer version, which was the FAT, FAT32 at the time, version of FAT was by far not enough to run some complex and sensitive scenarios in a robust way, okay, because FAT basically lacks any kind of robustness of preserving data mechanism on the storage. So you may lose, you may have corrupted data any time without having any means to, or very little means to identify this kind of problem, and so you, behind the scene, may continuously have corrupted data and an increasingly unreliable platform under your server, if you run a Microsoft system on your server. So a new type of file system was strictly required at the time, I'm talking around 25-30 years ago now. And so the developer from Microsoft developed this kind of operating system, where the, well, also the FAT has not robustness mechanism, but also from the performance perspective is very poor. Do not have indexing, do not have metadata that allow the organization of the content of a storage, of an hard drive. And this requires, this makes the performance to access, particularly in case of a large set of data, large amount, large files and huge number of large files, very poor from the performance perspective. Again, also this aspect was not very acceptable at the time. So with these ideas in mind, the developer from Microsoft oriented the file system more like a database, a kind of relational-like database, in order to organize and make them, and make the data access and manipulation more quick and robust. Okay, so what introduced this kind of system, which by the way stole a lot of technologies from another file system from IBM, the HPFS. Well, in the beginning Microsoft take a lot of technologies from what was open source in terms of standard and code. Well, we might find that many, many concepts evolved from HPFS, just a kind of fair tribute to that operating system, that at the time, or the type of file system that at the time was very, very exciting, very, very performing, very, very robust in respect of the ecosystem at the end of the last century. Well, what are the technical details? We have a master file table organized in kind of very similar to database database table, where the column, the cell, are metadata that organize the information that stores a lot of meta information on the very content of the a drive. And this is another point. We have an attribute-based file model, meaning that files are a collection of attributes, an extensible collection of attributes that allow a very detailed and multiply, and introduce the possibility to have kind of multiple views of data, not just streams of bytes that by themselves are not manageable.

Because if I just have a bunch of an extensively long set of bits, what I can do is just start from that, and from that, take that information. And so I cannot understand that I need to access this sector, this, this, and this, and get only this kind of information. I need to manipulate the information after the retrieval if I do not label, I do not categorize properly all of them. And so the NTFS file system introduces a lot of attributes that, by the way, are useful also for for security perspective. Some of them are related to access control, of course. Some of them, like the log files, are related to robustness, in the sense that I can put the information inside log that allow me to understand, at any time, what is happening on the file system, and then I can easily find out what was a problem, in case of problem. Furthermore, introduces the mechanism, again, very related, NTFS introduced mechanism, very similar to the one that you can find in a database, which is a kind of the concept of atomic operation and rollback.

The procedure inside NTFS expect that you express the set of operation you are going to do, the intent of your operation, that by itself is, that this set of operation is not atomic, but given the fact that you expressed the whole set of operation, in case a problem happens during the set of operation, the rollback mechanism allows to get back to the origin, and then retry the operation and see if you will be more likely, instead of interrupting a set of operations that will leave the file system in an inconsistent state. I think you know that this kind of mechanism is very typical, is commonplace inside database.

Okay, while partial updates and so inconsistent states, for example, I updated the fact table, but not the content of the file, or vice versa, was a typical issue in a in fact file system. Okay, what is the structure of NTFS? We have, as usual, as in any file system, the initial part, which is the volume, the partition built sector, where there are the initial information that organize the whole file system part, in the case of NTFS, this is the master file table. Then are the variables that might be an even large set of metadata files that describe the content of the data and the organization of the data.

Well, with data, I mean the data of the application that the end user normally see, the end user data, how this kind of data are organized. The metadata files describe this kind of aspect, provides a robustness mechanism, allow for the provision of robustness mechanism, allow for the provision of performance, improved mechanism, allow for access control, as we said, and the largest part, of course, is the data area, in which we have the content of, that are re-evented from the perspective of an induced anomaly. The master file table, the master file table, the first one, is a fixed portion inside NTFS.

We have exactly one kilobyte, and we have two components here, another fixed cells, one, which is the header, 42 bytes, that store in the mind of the developer of the NTFS, are the strictly relevant metadata about the device system itself. Okay, as you may note, not a, it is a very small portion, so the essential one are not so, is not a very large set of information. While we have another part that is limited, but may be variable in size, meaning that we may have different attributes, and any attribute, depending on the type of the attribute itself, may be of different size. Well, we have a set of attributes.

You may think that we have more or less, slightly less than 1000 bytes for the remaining attributes, not so, not so, not so much, you may think, and you are right, in the sense that NTFS has been developed to be extensive, and so we may have attributes that are contained inside this NFT, inside the NFT area, but also other attributes that are too large, or maybe we exhausted, already exhausted, the content, the size, the space of the NFT, that can be non-resident, meaning that the value is outside the NFT. Okay, a concept that is useful from a forensic perspective to know. So we may, when we directly access to the content of a block device, for example, and we are interested in understanding the organization of the file system of the file system, we may for sure need to access the NFT, but to complete our information, maybe we have to access also different parts of the storage that usually is inside the metadata space for non-resident one. It's very easy to understand if an attribute is resident or not, because we have basically a flag, which is another attribute that describes this aspect. And here an example of MFT.

Here, for example, we have the entity header, the fixed part, and then we have some attributes, pretty typical ones, by the way. Here we have the size in bytes of that attribute, just to show that maybe, sorry, here we have the size of the attribute as a parameter inside the attribute itself. And here, as a number, I put just the identifier of the attribute type. We have many tags of different attribute type. This is strictly, this is, we have a set of pre-established attributes that might be optional, and we can define, extend further attributes that might be useful in specific conditions.

Here, also, you can notice that we have two attributes resident inside here, and two, and one, sorry, that is not resident. When, in case of non-resident attributes inside, among the other parameters, we have the position, the cluster, the sector, in which the value of the attribute is. Okay? Okay? Yeah, an even more detailed view of the content of the MFT, focusing on the header field. This is basically just to allow you to understand the organization. I think it's good to start to see also this kind of hexadecimal representation because it's useful to be familiar with because many analyses from a forensic perspective expect the capability to interact with this kind of information, with this kind of standard, with this kind of standard, with this form of data. Okay? I think you know this is any, any symbol here is an hexadecimal value, so two symbols are a byte. Okay? It's also good to familiarize. This, in general, it's not necessarily relevant that you know exactly the shape of the either field of MFT, even if it is good to know in many possible scenarios. But even more importantly, in our context is that you understand the need to identify the different semantics inside an information, a piece of evidence that you will collect. For example, here we have one part, like in case of many of many files, at the beginning of the data box, let me say, in this case the data box is the partition. At the beginning of the NFT header we have something that allows to identify correctly a piece of information. In this case we have a signature, which should be a fixed value that allows me to identify if there is any problem in the record.

We may have a sequence number, parameters that identifies the content in terms of statistical contents, numerical, quantitative contents of a partition, like for example, the number of directories inside this description, the first level directories inside my file system. The fact, another very relevant one, if that describes if the sector is or not a valid one, meaning if it is allocated or not. We have two possible values here on a specific flag that says if the record is in use or not. If not in use, then regardless of the content of a not in use sector, of a not in use record, might still be there, but from the perspective of maybe it has been just deleted, but from the perspective of the operation system is a kind of empty sector. So again, as we already said, if I try to access it through the normal file operating system system calls, I will find no data inside there. But if I try to access directly the block device, I may be still be able to find the previously present data.

We already encountered this kind of concept and it is a very important one. In order to see, just to have some samples of what we can find inside an NFT entry, an NFT entry, which is basically a sequential collection of stream descriptors with specific value that identifies specific attributes like the identifier 16 means the attribute standard information. the identifier 48 means the identifier 48 means this is a very common attribute basically present in any kind of, in any scenario, which is the file name. Okay, a very typical, a very common case of attributes, etc, etc.

So, examples. Well, each attribute has this attribute type that I saved, which is inside a specific parameter, which is the attribute definition. Sometimes, depending on the type of attribute I may have or not, the attribute name is not necessarily relevant because, for example, I may have the very name standard information, but from the perspective of the operating system, this is not very required and may be omitted because I just need the identifier to understand that this attribute type is standard information.

So, putting this kind of information, the string standard underscore information is basically just a waste of time and space. So, but for readability perspective, to allow the examination from a human being, I can put that and then the value of the attribute itself, which is the very content of the attribute. Just to mention some of them, we have, of course, the data attribute, which is always present. We have, normally, we have the file name again, which is always present as well. Basically, those three are always present.

And the standard information that describes some of the typical metadata about files that I presented in the last, in the last lecture. We may have, well, we may have, well, also, the bitmap of flags that describe if a record is in use or not, is basically always present. We may have an optional and enriching attribute list inside a specific attribute, which is the attribute list, that allow to extend the content outside the limited size.

And even the limited set of possible attribute definitions, and even the limited set of possible attribute definitions, listing these attributes outside the MFT, thanks to these attributes. We may have security-related attributes, that, for example, contains the access control list and the core-related identifier. Okay? And this is just a small subset in order to allow you to understand some specific attributes that we may find there. And we have, also, that are further characterizing information, metadata files that basically allow to characterize the rest of the MTFs on the partition and allow to achieve the characteristics, like, for example, the backup inside this file, the files have exactly this name.

This one, for example, is a backup of the first form of the initial part of the original MFT, in order to provide the robustness of the content of the masterfied table. Masterfied table, okay? In case this would result corrupted, I have a backup here that I can use to substitute and to restore a working and accurate version of the MFT. We have the log file that allows the kind of atomicity that I described, that allows to understand the transaction that I performed, and also that I'm going to perform in order to allow the log back, as I said. We have a file that describes the usage of my storage device, of my hard drive inside this bitmap file, that describes exactly what is allocated and what is not.

I may have something that allows to manage the deterioration of my storage device, like a list of bad sectors that are no longer in use. And also something that contains the access control list. I also put some observation, well, of course, the volume that describes partition or hard drive related information, as well as file system level information, like the version of the file system I'm using. I put also some observations, some notes that allow us to understand what is the nice user from a forensic perspective of this component.

Like, for example, the transaction log allow us to retrieve data, because I may see what has been deleted as last operations on my storage device. The cluster usage map that describes, and also bad sectors allow us to identify specific points on the storage, where I may find high data, maybe recently erased ones, that might be very useful to reconstruct information, maybe correlated with the transaction log, in order to speed up and to very much focus the reconstruction operations.

And, of course, information about the access control allow me to understand if maybe some unauthorized access happened, some unauthorized operation happened on my file system. OK? OK. OK. OK. Well, some... This is not very surprising, but another remark that remember us that from the file system perspective, we might recover data. Why? How works MTFS to delete a file from the operation system perspective, from the OS perspective? Marks it as deleted, meaning that the entries related to those sectors are marked as not in use.

This is basically it. Of course, we have multiple structures so coherent, but from the perspective of the data itself, that's it, it's no longer in use. And, of course, we remove the entry from the MFT record that describes it as a specific data. We update the attribute inside the MFT, not in use, basically, and the bitmap file as well. OK? And then, why I put also this, I'm going into more detail here, because, basically, a data cover tool, a data carbon tool, can go into the very block device content and start to scan all the bugs.

So, we can scan all the bugs inside the data, finding how, looking for what, for, essentially, well, a number of stuff. But, basically, for signatures of known files that allow to identify pieces in which a previous file might be erased. Because, I find the signature, so maybe, here there is, in this case, an MFT header field. In some other case, remember what I told you. We have signatures that identify at the beginning of a file, the file type. And then, I can go through the erased, the deleted part of my files, looking for signatures in these not-in-use sectors that, from my perspective, can become a kind of goldman of previous, present data.

So, well, I think that, at this point, would be interesting to make a kind of, well, we do not have still much time, I can continue on that, I can put this point next week. This is nice, from the perspective of digital forensic investigator, but nowadays, it's not that simple, it's no longer that simple, with the SSD tools, SSD devices. Because, I don't know if you went into any detail about the internal work of SSD devices. Do you know concepts like trim? Do you know concepts like trim? We are leveling? No. Okay.

Do you not have a specific focus on that? You know, maybe because you know that, but it's not part of any course, right? Okay. So, it will be, I will have a small clarification on that next week, because this change significantly, this aspect, even without operating system awareness. But we will see this next week, next Tuesday. For today, I conclude the lesson just mentioning something that is nice, something, some practical, common tools that are useful when you access, when you want to understand more information, when you want to analyze and manage the file system content. Basically, you need to be aware of low-level commands that allow to find out file system metadata, and also device, also partition or hard drives metadata, like the ones we identified.

And we have commands, and also is important to understand that there are two kinds of commands, the system level ones that usually adopt operating system calls to understand the content. And so, they are not very, well, not reliable 100%, because they are mediated by the operating system, as we discussed. Okay, we may have, okay, we may have, we may have compromission of the operating system level, driver level, but even without compromission, we have any, without any malicious attempt to fool you, we have just partial information, just abstract information, not the direct content of a block device. And so we need to be aware that exist also command tools that allow us to go more deep into the very bad content of a device.

The stat command is a system, a normal system level one. So we can access a lot of information, but mediated by the operating system. They might be very useful, even in a forensic investigation, but we do not have direct access to the content. So probably this needs to be complemented with another one. We have a stat from a Linux, maybe Mac OS X. Inside a Windows system, we may have a PowerShell command letter that acquire basically the same stuff in terms of .NET objects. Again, we have GitItem that allow me to retrieve a file name, file size, attributes, etc. But instead, we have the, let me call them, forensic tools that allow direct access.

We have fsutil in Windows system, usually, that expose the low-level MTFS structure. Or we have the iStat, iNodeStat, iNodeBasedStat inside, well, Linux, but you may find it also in Windows. But basically, this is from the SLOID kit, which is a forensic suite of tools that allow physical, low-level interaction with the file system structure. And this is more complex to be seen, more complex to be understood, the output of this tool, but allow instead direct access to the information.

So, in a normal investigation, you, most of the time, will use both kinds of common type, system level and forensic level. And, by the way, comparing the output of these two kinds of commands allows you to find out inconsistencies and then attend to manipulation of your storage. So, it's useful to have a full set of information, but it's also useful to understand that something went wrong somehow, that something manipulated or there were some errors on your storage that allowed you maybe to explain something strange during your investigation. And, well, we already addressed this, but this concept applies the same on the manipulation of the files.

So, when I try to manipulate, copy, delete, etc., a file, I can perform that from a system perspective, that, for example, we can delete a file, but the file will be still there, apart from the fact that we marked not in use in case of NTFS. NTFS, or we deleted the entry in case of NTFS, or we deleted the entry in the file allocation table, or we free the inode in a next file system, etc., the implementation might vary, but the concept is over the same. The operating system, the deletion at the operating system, at system level, just say, okay, the file is deleted. The operation at forensic level means the content of the file has been completely deleted, so I can no longer retrieve the content.

Same concept on the copy of the file, the copy from a system perspective is just take the payload of the file, the end-user data of the file, and copy it into this different box. The content of the box itself, I mean the metadata related to the file, are not copied, are recreated, changed, whatever, at file system level. When I manipulate a file with an application, the metadata changes, some of them may remain the same, some of them changes, but just that some of them remain the same is not enough from a forensic perspective, because exactly in those that are changed, we might find important information, and we cannot allow the deletion, we cannot allow this missing part.

And so, to copy files or images or content of partition, we need to use, in a forensic perspective, commands that copy bit by bit. We already encountered the dg command, I mentioned it again, I mentioned again as well, the fact that most of the time, along with this kind of operation, I also require some further operation, I also require some further operation that is desirable, are atomic operation, like for example, evaluate the hash of the copy of a file of an image, and some extension of dd, like the two that I mentioned here, two of the most commonly used, allow for this kind of conceptually atomic operation, from a forensic perspective, in just one command, which is desirable.

Again, okay, well, just for you to have more concrete, this concept here, we have commands that allow the copy. IF parameter is the input, OF is the output. For example, with this command, what I'm doing, I'm copying the content of this storage device to this storage device, bit by bit. And note something relevant, dg is a raw command. So, if I'm doing this operation, and for example, the sdb device is smaller than the sda, some of the sda content will be lost during the operation.

Okay? So, when I use this kind of command, I need to be pretty much careful about the operation that I'm doing. Okay? And note, this is for cloning, I'm putting the content of this device inside this file, meaning that this file, from the very begin of this device, is exactly the same sequence of bits. Okay? Okay? From a forensic perspective, this is very useful, very important. Okay? And well, I can create, I can use different, here, something interesting, the extended version of dd allow to specific operation like the secure deletion. For example, here, I'm saying, okay, put a sequence of zeros onto this device, hdb.

Okay? So, I completely wipe out the content of this file. Okay? And of course, I can concatenate this command, create the complex script, et cetera, et cetera. And basically, nowadays, the field is a little more mature. But some years ago, digital forensic experts will have the set of scripts that usually run on a system in order to perform typical kind of examination. And you can still create what you prefer in order to have a nice tool suite with you. Okay. Questions? Thank you, friends. For today we ended our time.

Tomorrow we will have a different topic. We will club, we will continue on this matter, next week.
