Hello Stefano.

Okay, so today we will finish our theoretic part and then the next Friday we will start with the laboratory part.

Just a really short recap of what are the main issues about the last lesson on the Seber Crime Convention, I describe the context of the Seber Crime Convention, it's probably not necessary for the exam, but it's important to understand what happened and to have a clear idea of what was the word in 2000 when internet basically arrived. Then we go through the timeline and the timeline is important. It's not important to remember the signature, but the Budapest Convention November 2001 is something that you have to remember. Then coming back to the content, these principles are important, not fundamental, but are important.

You can remember this. And then here you have a sort of recap of the most important power. But then what is important is when you go through slide 13 up to slide 30. That is, the concept here is philosophical, concept here not is philosophical. The loss of control of data is a concept that should be explained very well, even if it's really simple, but it's important because it's at the basis of the jurisdiction principle. Then coming back to the article, again, the article, the main article is article 32, you have to learn very well because it's at the basis of all the, all the, all the scenario that we have discussed.

What I can tell you about the other article, it's important to know, as I explained the last Friday, all the principle, for example, the concept of, of preservation. Then there are some repetition. It's important also to distinguish between traffic data, content data, email data. We will go through this concept also during the laboratory because for you, basically all is data. But just to give you an example that we will discuss today, there is a huge difference between correspondence data or a, for example, a word document. Why? An email and a word because there is a constitutional protection about correspondence. So, any kind of communication between two parties should be secret. Now, the concept of secrecy is lost because we have in the digital world, the concept of email is less felt as a confidential issue.

But in the past, a letter, if you violate the privacy of a person reading a letter, apart from the fact that it is a crime, just to let you know, because it's an important crime. So, if you read an email of another person, it's a crime. In the main moment that you are reading the content, it's a crime. Article 616 of the Italian Criminal Code. And there is a huge difference between the fact that you are reading an email and you are reading a document, any kind of other document that is not a correspondence between a person to another person. So, when you have understood this, you also understood that also the importance of the kind of data, it's really useful to understand the legal consequences. When we do, for the person that did the cybersecurity and law course, you understood in the 2701 certification, the importance of classification of data in terms of security.

But now we are discussing about the classification of data in terms of legality. And it's really important because when you are going to manage data, and you will probably manage a lot of digital data, you are not the example of the email, for example, it's really easy to understand. So, the idea that if you read an email or you read a document that describes that email, just to give you an idea, the document that describes this email, you can read without any criminal risk. In the other sense, you will commit a crime. In the past, and we will discover this in the lesson of today, we had a lot of discussion in the past, just 10 years ago, just to give you an idea, not 50 years ago, we had a lot of discussion about how can we manage the concept of an email account. An email account.

And also today, the managing of an email account is a mess, because you have to figure out that it's the first time in the world that we have the idea of what will be after our life. And so our will should manage the consequences of an email account, because now we start to have, I don't want to speak too much about this, but it's an interesting point. When you die, what is the end of your email account? The provider is entitled to close your account or not. It's a will, it's a testimony of your life, your email account, or it's a matter of privacy, so it should be deleted. And if, and so the general idea now is that if you leave any kind of, in the will, obviously, testamento, just to give you an idea of what I, because perhaps someone of you does know what is a will.

And if you don't put there, the email account should be left by the provider. And so all these kind of issues are really important, because it's a testimony of your life, your email account. But we never thought at this kind of problem when we started to use in a massive way the email account. Now we are starting to see that the legal consequences of a correspondence could not be fit with the previous world that was a physical world. So in the physical world, it was a little bit simpler to manage all this kind of stuff. Now when we have probably, I have 18 email account, for professional reason, obviously, but 18 is a lot. I have a lot of information. I have a million of emails.

And probably I finished my life with a trillion of emails. What is the end of this email? So this is the question that we start to pose now. 10 years ago, the question was, can we manage the email at the same level of the correspondence? This is just to give you an idea of what is the difference between data. So this kind of information also have an impact on the kind of power tool that the law enforcement has to have to conduct an investigation. So this kind of information. So it's not important to learn by heart all this article, but it's important to know you can create a scheme with all this kind of power, all this kind of tool. And then also we can go to today a little bit on the concept of interception and the difference between interception of content data and interception of traffic data.

Mutual assistance is a concept that I explained very well. Please remember it's important. Then we have the article 32, 32B, and then we have this last part related to the additional framework. So again, it's not so many information to learn. I think that it's important to have this procedural part. It's important. It could be probably a matter of the exam because I'm not sure I have to tell you the truth because it's the first time that I dedicate so much time to the laboratory part. So I'm not so sure that we will have all the material that we had the last year for the exam. So basically, I want to leave your more information about the practical issue. But for the exam, probably this slide and the next slide and the previous slide of the first lesson, the first two lessons are really important.

Apart from the introductory lesson, that is not obviously really important. So remember that it could be important. If you have any doubt, if you have any question, please ask me. Also not the last lesson. You can also start here. Now we can go to the other lesson of today. OK, so we have the Italian law. As I explained to you, and this is a concept that could be a question for the exam, just to be clear, we have in any convention two fundamental parts.

The first part is the signature of the convention. So all the member parties decided to agree about a certain convention. But then all the parties, that is a state, should come, should go in their state, in their parliament, in their democratic system or not democratic system. It depends on what is the state, and then they should convince the parliament, I explained in a democratic system, to create a law to apply the principle of the convention. And if you remember, we had the convention, the signature of the convention by Italy in 2001, probably at the end of the convention. I have a doubt, it's not important anyway. But from the signature and from the convention, the date of the convention, this is something that we, I'm sure, up to the law, passes seven years.

So a lot of time, seven years is a lot of time. And that's why probably I have to admit that when we discuss about the future of computer forensics, and probably you know that I'm a little bit pessimistic because I'm waiting since 2001. So it's about 25 years that I'm waiting that the culture of the judiciary system specifically, but all the Italian system, and also I would say European system, start to understand the importance to treat the evidence in a different way. But when you consider that we need seven years to approve some principle of the convention, you can imagine that probably your generation will be the generation that can benefit about all these principles that we have decided. This is the problem of the law that is always really, really slow when we have to apply that. So what is important today?

We will discuss about some overview, some principle. You will read in this presentation some principles that make you very optimistic because you say the importance of digital forensics, the importance of the validation, the acquisition, all the rules that Professor Azzeni explained to you very well in this period, in the other part of the lesson. To tell you the truth, the problem of the law 48 of 2008, that is the law that applies the cybercrime principle, is the fact that it's only principle. There is no any kind of detailed information. When I explain to you the fact that I had, oh sorry, every time we have to do this, I don't know why.

Okay, well, we can start to do this again. Advise me when it arrives, the sharing, ask a question. I don't know why I can say yes one time, probably I have to go to the settings. Okay. I was explaining that the 48 of 2008 law, I was explaining, sorry, about the remote forensics law, the law that gives to us the possibility, give to the law enforcement the possibility to open the mobile phone or any kind of device and create a wiretapping and interception of the microphone and the webcam.

When I explain this kind of law, I also explain that for me it's crazy not to have a clear and detailed procedure. But the laws normally give you a principle and not give you a procedure. But when we talk about digital data, digital device, the digital world in general, it's important to have a clear procedure because anything should be done in a clear procedure. The problem of this law, so it's that yes, the principles are absolutely correct and agreeable, but at the same time there is no any kind of practical. Also decree, for example, it's not necessary that it's a law, it should be another kind of law that decree is normally, it's a more detailed law that explains the principle in a practical way.

So, coming back to the overview, obviously the Budapest Convention was issued by the Council of Europe in November 2003, but the Italian ratification happened in March 2008 and was published in the Official Gazette in April. So, the ratification of the Budapest Convention represents a critical step in modernization of the Italian legal system, the growing importance of international cooperation in addressing the rapidly evolving digital landscape. So, this is obviously some general principle, so this is obviously some general principle, you can use this wording to start for the exam, any kind of open question, but at the very end, it's something that we have already said and are more blah, blah, blah issue. So, the idea that we have in areas of rapid technological change and all this kind of stuff.

So, what is important is the main innovation. So, three main innovations. International harmonization of legislation. So, the idea to align laws international to combat cybercrime. The idea that with this law, we want to align the Italian law with all the other 68 member states that decided to have the cybercrime convention. The reorganization of cybercrime offenses. And this is an important part that you should absolutely understand also because I have to admit that there is no, I was checking today, there is no specific slide. So, please consider this because this is an important part. I will consider to give you an additional slide on this part because you need to know these three principles. Today, probably I will explain just already and then I will prepare because it's important to you to have also some written slide to understand this.

But it's important, this part. So, the reorganization of cybercrime offenses that was made by law 48 of 2008. And to tell you the truth, I recognize the importance of this just in the last years, because at the beginning, it was not clear how was important the change of the damage to an IT system and damage to a software that is an important crime. I was not aware about how impact could have this kind of crime. So, it's important also for you to understand the importance of this crime. And then the other, the third important issue is to extend the liability under legislative decree 231 of 2001. And also in this part, I would like to spend some words because the legislative decree 231, it's a revolution in the criminal system.

And I will explain to you why, but it's also useful for you. So, when you will, for the person that, but anybody of you, independently from the kind of activity that you will do in your professional life, you will have to manage the decree 231 of 2001. For the person who are interested about the compliance issue and the compliance sector, it's one of the main important law that we have in Italy. So, it's really important to understand the 231 also because it was an important goal reached by this law. So, I would like to start to give you some words about the three crimes that was amended by the law 48 of 2008. And the first crime that is really important is the damage to an IT system.

Again, don't worry about the fact that you don't have the slide, follow me and then I will send you, I will add additional material by also today. It's not a problem, but you have to also, it's really simple to understand. It's not a complex crime, but there is a tricky issue that you should understand. So, what is a damage to an IT system? It's really simple. What is for you a damage to an IT system? Some damage on the physical side of the IT system, maybe? Give me an example of what is a damage to an IT system. Damage for in other cases, maybe there is the rain and the water and the surface or something like that. Headquake is something that can cause a damage or maybe a damage that can affect the...

So, it's only... Okay, yes, I can through my mobile phone and this is a damage to an IT system. There is only physical damage. There is also the fact that a damage to an IT system can affect the CIA and the other side of the video. So, all... And this is an interesting point. Not only the damage to... Because when you make damage to an IT system, you create the fact that this IT system is unavailable. It's unavailable. When you make a violation of the three important rules, thanks. First is confidentiality, availability and integrity. But when you make an attack, you don't create a situation where the IT system is not available. So, there is another crime that is an abuse to an IT access. An IT access or violation to an IT access. That is Article 615. That is a different crime.

So, when you... There is a clear connection between the confidentiality. Confidentiality is violation to an IT system. Access abusivo sistema informatico, just for the Italian person. So, there is a connection. So, because you don't create any problem to an IT system, you could create. And this... And they become another crime. But basically, if I enter in your laptop, I make a crime. But it's not... I don't create any damage to your IT system. Just the fact that I can read your information. I can also make an exfiltration. But even if I make an exfiltration, I don't create any damage. So, this is the first crime. The second crime. The second crime is damage to an IT system that happens when you create. So, can you make me an example of a online... Sorry, not physical damage, digital damage that could have an IT system. Can you make a practical example?

DDoS. DDoS is a damage to an IT system. DDoS is a damage to an IT system. And the ransomware is a damage to an IT system. But the problem of the damage of an IT system is... And this is a question for you. The damage should be forever or just for a temporary period to have the crime? DDoS. DDoS. DDoS. Why? Even temporary? Just to give a... DDoS. DDoS. Create some problems to the owner. So, fine. DDoS. Yeah. No, but... Yes. But it's... To... Yes. The point is... It's true. But in my view, even if I create... It's just to give you an idea. It's impossible.

But I take this bottle and I create this problem. And then the bottle comes back in the same scenario because it starts to be... Because when you have a temporary... An availability of data or a system, then after this availability, everything is at the same level of before. You understand what I mean? Sorry for my English, but just because it's a different concept to explain. So, for the criminal doctrine, it was complex to say because the idea of damage is that it's definitive damage. So, when you have an accident and your car is crashed, you have the damage. It's... If everything is after a certain period of time, come back in a perfect situation, you can see that there is a damage. No, because the damage is solved. But it's true what you say, perfect answer.

And this is the... After a long discussion, the idea is... The problem is that you create also for a certain period of damage to a person. But the point is also from, for example, the data breach issue and coming back to the... Because, for example, for an answer, how much time should be an availability? So, if you have an availability for a second, for you, for just for one second. So, you cannot access to the file for one second. For you, it's a crime or not? But how much time it happens that you have an availability to a system for one second? So, it's finding someone or it's just something that... Is it intentional? No, no, obviously. If it happens, if it happens, if it's not... If there is no reason, if it's a technical reason, I would say, a non-intentional reason, obviously, it's not a crime.

But also, if there is the intention to do this... For... I understand that for you, it's... You have the different culture also for one second. Because in that second, it cannot happen. But for us, it was not the same, because when you start a criminal trial, so you have to consider that if you damage... Because you have two issues in a criminal proceeding that you have to demonstrate for the defendant, and you will discover this in the laboratory. The first is the material element, and the other one is the intention. Okay? So, I completely agree from you that an attacker, I have the intention to create damage. And this is absolutely one part of the crime. But then when we go to the material element, you are going to say that we have to discuss for a trial, just because you create damage for one second.

And then you have to consider that there is another point, another distinction in the criminal law that is the real commission of the crime and the attempt to commit a crime. You understand the attempt to commit a crime. So, this is an attempt to commit a crime, or is it a real crime? When you create an unavailability of a system just for one second. If this is an unavailability, obviously, creates an enormous damage, yes, yes, you have the evidence. But if you just have for one second, one system that is blocked, and then after one second, nothing happens. You cannot demonstrate any kind of damage. You cannot demonstrate any kind of damage. So, we can stop now, just for one second, you don't see the slide. And then after one second, you will see again the slide. What is the damage for you? The fact that for one second, you don't see the slide. So, this is the big question, because the consequences of this should be from six months up to three years, and in certain situations up to five years of prison.

So, it's an important consequences, please. The security was provided for data protection, for example, and the data occurs, for example, data breach, even for a short time. But then, this event becomes popular and spreads out. So, maybe there is a reputational damage. Reputational damage. Yes, absolutely. If you can demonstrate reputational damage, but the reputational damage happens only if you have damage, basically. If you become, because, for example, also in the guideline of European Data Protection Board, when we discuss about data breach, the fact that the unavailability is just for a short period of time, that cannot be also one second, more than one second. Also, you can have an unavailability. For example, I manage data breach of Italian line that, for the poor person that has an account like Libero or Virgilio, had the unavailability of the email for, in a certain case, one week, in other case, one month.

And the data protection authority recognized that, at the very end, even if there was this unavailability, due to the fact that this kind of accounts are free, you don't have to pay, it cannot be considered a data breach. I a little bit disagree, because when you have an unavailability in a certain situation for one month of an email, for me, it's an incredible damage. But this is just to give you an idea of what is the position of the data protection authority. But anyway, coming back to your point, it's absolutely true. If you have any leak of information in the newspaper, you can discover this, obviously that there is a reputational damage. But you are straight in going to the point. So the idea is to discover the damage, to discover the damage. But for us, it was strange, because for us, the idea of damage is an idea of destruction, not something that is a temporary destruction for our culture.

Because the criminal code, our Italian criminal code was made in 1944, and then there was the first important change in 1988. But anyway, the criminal law started with the Roman in Italy, empire. So basically, the idea of physical destruction was really structured in the doctrine and the idea of the judicial system. So with the IT system, we start to understand that the temporary destruction could constitute a crime. So, and we arrive at this. Coming back to the point, the second point that you have to understand, we have discussed about the damage for a certain period of time. What happens for you if I am an employee, I finish my work in my company, and my company gives to me two devices, an IT, sorry, a laptop and a mobile device.

And then I use the mobile device, even if I receive precise instruction that I can use that device just for professional reason, not for personal reason. And this for me, it's quite crazy, because it's quite impossible to use a professional device only for professional reason. Because you have your friends, also in your work, you cannot decide, okay, you cannot talk to me, please stop, you can send me, you have to send me a WhatsApp on the other phone. Yes, theoretically, it could happen that you can divide your life between the professional life and personal life. But in a practical way, if I have to say, okay, today we can go to make a football team or we can go to the cinema, you cannot switch everything. But theoretically, you receive instruction that you cannot use for personal reason. So after your work, you decided to delete your personal information from the mobile device.

And then you give back the device to the owner, to the employer. Do you think that this is a crime or not? I have deleted only my personal information or like, since the work? We could say that you can delete only your personal information. Well, the fact that I just have for my personal information. Yes, but remember that you receive instruction, just to give you an advice, that you cannot use for personal reason. But these are the internal directives of the company. Yes. So, they have a criminal effect on the employee?

Yes, in a certain sense, you anticipate the answer, but yes, the answer is yes, because it's the intention of the owner of the device. So, if I give you this bottle of water and I say you cannot do something, I am the owner of the bottle of water. So, if you do something that this is, then something can give some civil responsibility, administrative responsibility, but also criminal responsibility, violate my bottle, my device. Because, so, I understand what you say. You say there are policy. Can policy should lead to a criminal? Yes, if I am the owner, I have some right. And in this case, we have a crime that is called a damage to an IT system. IT system or also data. So, data, IT just to give you the general terms, then data, software, whatever.

So, yes. And there is a huge discussion about this. But I want also to give you another tricky issue more. So, we discuss, so, you destroy just your personal data, but you receive instruction that you cannot use for personal reason. Again, this is crazy for me because the real point coming back to you, it's the fact that it's really difficult to avoid personal information. And it's, in a certain sense, our right to say, if I had, for example, a relation with a girl in that company, I have the interest to delete this information to protect my privacy and the privacy of the other person. But, again, you should use not the device of the company, but another device to add this kind of conversation. But I give you another point, and this is the last question is, what if I use my laptop for personal reason?

I delete all the information that are put in local. I know that for you, that expert, it's crazy, but there are a lot of not experts on IT systems. And so, they delete all the information on the local system, but there is all the information in the cloud of the company. So, there is no real deletion, correct? Because I just make a deletion on my desktop, but it does not make any sense because basically all the information are present in the company. The company can start a criminal proceeding against you. Why? To sum up everything to something wrong. Yes, this is the point, because the Court of Cassation explained, that is the highest court that we have in Italy, that the idea is the willingness to create damage. Also, when you delete other information, not only personal information, because personal information is to create the tricky issue.

And this information is because all the criminal activity in the corporate forensics are based on the fact that the employee, the classical example, we will have a lot of time to discuss about this, exfiltrate some information and then start to delete any kind of evidence about this kind of exfiltration. This kind of deletion, even if you can discover with the digital forensics analysis, because you make carving and you can reconstruct any kind of activity made by the employee. But anyway, the intention was to delete, even if it's not a real deletion. So the problem of the damage is that the unavailability, also if it's temporary, lead to a crime. The deletion, even if it's not a deletion, because you have another copy, lead to the crime.

Probably for you it's absolutely clear this, but for me it's not so clear, because you have to discuss, because it's not a real deletion. It's just a theoretical activity, but what we want to punish, as you correctly said, is the intention to do this kind of activity. So this is a really important crime. And then coming back to the third point, when you make an alteration of the data, so you change the data, but you don't destroy the data. Is it a crime or not? Yes. Every one of you agree on the fact that if I alterate the data is a crime. Okay, it's not a crime. But this is for the Italian system, and fortunately in other jurisdictions it's not this, but as we live in Italy, most of you live in Italy, is not a crime because the Italian system decided that any kind of false statement and false declaration and false information are not more a crime since 2016.

I don't know why I totally disagree because we are in a generation where the possibility to create a fake is really easy, but we create a law that avoids this kind of crime. What it remains is any kind of alteration that has an impact to the public. So just to be clear, you send me an email. I will forward this email, changing the content of your email. So this is a classical situation that happens in your work. So I can give, I forward the email, so Pietro, Pier Francesco, sorry, Pier Francesco sends me an email and then I forward to another person, but I change some information about Pier Francesco and creating a damage to him. For me, this is a false information. This is not more a crime because it's a relation between private.

But if I falsificate any kind of document to obtain, for example, an advantage in the university, that is a public institution, I commit a crime. So if there is the false to the public is a crime, false to private is not more a crime. That is the reason why we have created with the recent law about artificial intelligence in 2025, the crime of deepfake. Because at the very end, the state, the Italian state says, OK, but there is a deepfake. Ah, also, we need, because they thought that deepfake arrived just in 2025 with AI. Deepfake was a little bit also present in our system before 2025. So again, the tricky issue of the false, that is the crime that is connected with the third element, that is the integrity of the file, is not more a crime since 2016.

Now we have a deepfake, but we have other kind of crime, so don't worry. Because technically, there is no crime when I alterate a document that is not used for a public reason, OK, technically. But then if I alterate a file, probably, I want to make a fraud at the very end. So the idea is that you can cover this kind of activity with another crime that is fraud. You understand? So, coming back to your question, yes, also the alteration is a crime. But if the alteration does not make for a fraud, but just to create a problem to Pier Francesco, I want to damage his reputation, for example, but not I don't want to take money from Pier Francesco, but just to create a problem because I don't like you.

So I create a problem. This is not more a crime, OK? It could be a civil action because you say, OK, but you can make an illicit activity, you can start a civil action against me, but it's not a crime. If I alterate the document to fraud you, obviously, it's the crime of fraud. The crime of fraud is already, fortunately, we had fraud in Italy. Any kind of question? OK. So these are the three crimes that we have to understand. And coming back to the first one, the first one is the illegal access to an IT system. Access abusivo informatico, violation of IT system, whatever you want to call it, is the most important crime, basically, because any kind of attack starts with an illegal access to an IT system. I want to have your attention for the last time because this is another tricky issue.

Because the idea is when you are in a system, especially from the perspective of engineer, you are entitled to do whatever you want. And since 2008 to 2007, it was also in the judiciary system. But then we discover an important principle, I tell you in Latin and then in English, use excluding the aglios, our right to exclude someone independently from the fact that I am in that situation. I give you in a physical world. The physical world is really simple. I open, I leave my house, I leave the door open in my house, completely open. Not, so you are entitled to enter in my house or not? Even if my, no, because my intention, because you can, you can understand that there is a house.

Yes, I, for mistake, I leave the door open. But anyway, you, you know that you cannot enter in the house, even if the house is open. Okay. So, then use excluding the aglios means that even if I, the password is 1234, or you don't have the password, but you know that you cannot enter in that website, you, if you are entering that website, you are committing a crime. When you discuss about the physical world, the domicile violation, it's a little bit easier rather than in the digital world, because sometimes you are not, it's not so clear that you cannot, that there is that use excluding the aglios, it's not so clear that you cannot enter. You see that that website is open and then you enter and do whatever you want. If you remember the street view case that I described in the, in the other lesson is the idea, if you don't put a password in the, in the engineer world, um, is you, you, you, you give the access to another person.

Transpose this concept in the digital world, it could be also difficult, but I can give you another element that is more complex. And now is the future of the illegal access to an IT system in the fact that you are in a, um, authorization system based on 2701. So you have the possibility to have access to a certain file. Um, and this is the situation, but you use the, the, the, the file for a reason, for a purpose that is not connected to your work. Practical example, it will be easier. Uh, a person of the, uh, tax agency, the Italian tax agency, an officer of the Italian tax agency, uh, receive a call of his, uh, cousin and his cousin asked, uh, hi, can you check, uh, the, uh, revenue, the total revenue of, uh, this person? Why?

Because, uh, this person wants to buy my house and I want to see if he is, uh, rich enough to, uh, give me the money immediately or is a frauder, fraudster. So the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the officer have the total authorization to see that file. There is absolutely the possibility to do this kind of activity, but not for the reason that to, to give to the cousin, this kind of information, but just to do any, uh, the activity to control the data. So when you do this kind of activity, you commit an illegal access to an IT system. i think that it's clear for you okay this is this seems logical when it comes really really tricky i'll give you another example i'm an attorney and i want to have more client and then a client asks me some information about a case that is of another client and i reveal some information that is secret to another client to obtain a trust of this other client we all agree that is not ethic conduct we all agree about this but this is also an illegal access to unity system why because that kind of information that i have is not because it's not come from the mouth of the client but is present in a file that i have read because any kind of information now is online is in my mobile so the if we accept this kind of culture and this is what the highest court in italy but not only near in italy this is the culture that we have in europe and around the world we accept that any kind of information that we reveal to another person without the authorization could constitute an illegal access to an it system you understand what i mean because and this is the extension of the illegal access to an it system so we start to take to the idea that the legal access to an it system was just anonymous that come to my um uh laptop and uh make a a an attempt to obtain if to exfiltrate information from my laptop but now the situation is that any employee that does not respect the classification of data and the rule and the policy coming back to pyr francesco yes the policy can lead you to a um um a crime and this is why it's important the policy and why it's important all the the the internal rule about the it because all the information should be uh respected from one side this create me a little bit of problem because it's really difficult not to commit a crime if we accept this kind of from one side the illegal access to an it system that limit you to say just what also because yes it's the example that i make uh when i explain the the the the the the fact of the attorney it's really it's it's it's easy but when you are work for example when you arrive at home and you explain to your life to your wife what happened in your in your work probably you can also commit an illegal access to an it system because you are not authorized to tell to your and again it's not you don't have to demonstrate the damage in that case it's not like the damage to an it system just the fact that you violate the confidentiality of your company constitute a crime so basically you cannot say anything so this is just the idea but i hope that you understood the the difficulty also to see that obviously in reality nobody can can start the camera proceeding if you uh told to your wife about what happened in your work but this is the extension that we have about the legal access to an it system the damage remember the two factors that the the temporary destruction and the temporary deletion in a certain sense is the same sorry the temporary i would say in an unavailability sorry and the temporary deletion um that in certain sense it's the same but for me it's a little bit different there are some differences and then the fact of the integrity that it's not more in italy a crime the false uh to an it system if or to to to to to a document in a digital world uh if it's made in the private situation and not in the public so this is the reorganization of the crime of the law 48 of 2008 but if if you read the law you cannot understand all this kind of issue that i described um in the law because what happened is that from this kind of reorganization in 2008 up to now so it's uh 18 years um we had a lot of case law jurisprudence that create this interpretation and what you have to understand in the judiciary system and this is and in the legal system and this is not a good thing for you that everything will change every years because if we have a new interpretation of the law uh we probably the next year i will say no it's not more the interpretation about the temporary unavailability because the highest court decided that this is the new interpretation of the law you understand what i mean okay okay so if you don't have any doubt we can continue with corporate liability and don't worry i will send you some slides about this and also don't worry i i it's not my intention to make you crazy so i don't you don't receive a question like temporary unavailability or whatever you just receive a question about the three crime violation to an it system illegal access to an it system damage of an it system there are online millions and millions of webcams on the internet so i know and they are placed inside the houses of houses of houses of houses of houses of houses of houses so i know that they are placed in that place but i am committing a crime if i am accessing to it even if they are free on the internet yes in terms of the fact that if you know that what they are going to see my question before answering i don't know maybe it's the garden maybe it's the balcony maybe it's the living room i don't know this i don't know but they are free because yes but the person that is the owner of the garden owner of the bedroom uh uh give you the authorization to have this kind of access in your perspective so it's an illegal access to an it system yeah because if you know that you don't have the right to see that information you are committed okay but this is the point is an open open open open door even if it's an open door this because the the the the in the in the u.s system it's uh more than in italian system uh clear this part the the policeman cannot enter never never never ever in in house of the investigated person in the house of the district if there is no a warrant of the judge and in the warrant of the judge is not like the italian system in the italian system yes it's really easy to obtain this easy to obtain this warrant. So you ask and in a second you receive. But in the US system, if you want to enter in the house of a person, you have to really convince the judge. It's a long procedure to obtain the warrant to enter in the house. So this is the idea of the privacy of the person. So basically to respect this, the idea, even if there is the open door, you cannot enter. So it's a sort of change of perspective, because I understand your point of view. You say, but if it's free, how can I know? But it's in your duty to know if you are authorized or not to see that kind of webcam. Then obviously, in reality, there is no possibility to have an evidence that you have. Yeah, no. Theoretically, yes. Yeah. But you have to start. Why? The evidence is one of the facts that give you the possibility to say that it's quite impossible to be prosecuted for this kind of crime. And another part that you have to remember is that when you think of the crime, you have always to remember one thing, that is the prosecutability. The prosecutability is the fact that certain crime can be prosecuted ex officio. That means it can be prosecuted by the prosecutor. Other crime can be prosecuted only if there is a charge, querella, denuncia, made by the victim of the crime. So in the case of the illegal access to an AT system, you should have a charge.

So basically, the complex issue is that the person that has the webcam should go and make a charge and probably is not in your jurisdiction. I don't know if it's in your jurisdiction or not in the case that you have imagined. So it's quite difficult that an Indian policeman start a criminal investigation to have the traffic data of Pier Francesco in Italy. So that's why there is no possibility for an Italian prosecutor to start, even if I make a private notice, even if it's not correct, but I can go to today, I can go to the postal police of Turin and say, oh, you can go to the house of Pier Francesco because Pier Francesco do this kind of illegal activity. They cannot come to your house because there is no charge made by the victim of the crime. There is no denuncia. There is no querella. So they cannot come. But if you tell me that you exchange drug or you have killed the person, that this kind of crime can be prosecuted by a public prosecutor, I can go to the postal police and say, go to Pier Francesco that there is a lot of drug in his house. And then they can come to your house and take the drug. Do you understand what I mean? The difference is between the fact that it's really important to distinguish the crime, if to start an investigation, it's fundamental, there is an obligation to have the charge or not.

Thanks for your question, because this is an important point. Yes. But when you talk about free Wi-Fi, it's with the password or not? With the registration or not? Without the registration or with a piece of paper, with the name of Wi-Fi and the password. Yeah. Okay. I don't know if I answered your question, but then tell me if I don't answer your question. But there is a huge discussion. And in Italy, you cannot open a public space and give a public Wi-Fi if you don't give, if you don't oblige the person to register. And so you can start to have some evidence about the activity that you did, even if it's quite impossible, because you can use a lot of way to anonymize yourself. But you cannot have, for example, in a public space that is not an office, for example, but is a pub, you cannot have the idea, okay, the password is one, two, three, four, three, four, five, you can have the access. This is illegal activity. You should give the password, you should register yourself to a service. So email, and then you can check your email, verify the email, and then you can enter in the service. This is an administrative law that imposed this. But I don't know if this is the answer that you want to know. What is the answer? What is the question?

No, there is no documentation that you have to do. The point is the retention that probably can, because if you are, again, in a public space, not in a private space, you should respect some, you are a legal entity. And that could be also a physical entity that start a commercial activity, but you can, you have, you are a legal entity. And if you are a legal entity, you have to respect the GDPR. GDPR rule imposed that you should have the register of activity, a lot of activity. If you follow the other course, you understood what are the rules. One of these is the data retention procedure. So you should decide how much time you will retain the data or the log of the person that entered in that system. So this is the only documentation that from the GDPR rules, you have to respect. But from a, we could say, criminal point of view, not the GDPR point of view, you don't have to do this. The only thing that you cannot do is to have the classical situation that you have in a lot of restaurants, this is the password, and you can enter. Because even if you can also have some information, but it's different from the system that verify your email.

So the only issue that you have to do in a public space is to use some system that probably you see in the hotel, but not in the pub and not in the restaurant, that this is because it's, yes, it's because it's just a, it's not a criminal sanction. It's a, it's a fine that you receive if you don't respect this rule. So the bar and the restaurant don't, don't care too much. And it's a make a question that makes me crazy because this kind of activity can lead to some, if you're a lot of case that we had in the past, was in the internet cafe. Now it's not more, you, you don't, you, you know what is the internet cafe? No. Okay. Place when you stay there sometimes in the, specifically, but without your device, with not your device. So you have some laptop and that kind of place did not respect any kind of rule regarding the data retention, regarding this. And then a lot of of child pornography crime has been committed in that place because you were in a certain sense anonymous, because there were now in situation like this, there is some specific rule, CCTV, data retention documents, and all this kind of ID. So, so you have to, to, to present your ID, but in the past, the situation was completely different. So it depends on what is the situation in a restaurant and in the pub. Again, you don't have to give the document, you don't have to prepare documentation apart from GDPR. But the real point is from a technical standpoint, what, what kind of access are you going to give? And for me, the, the, the, the important part that we have to, to solve is the fact that you have to register your email when you want to enter in a, in a public space. For me, it's important because a lot of cyber criminal can, can, can, can commit crime. If you can, if you can give this kind of access. Okay. This is the answer. Okay. Okay. So corporate criminal liability.

This is another issue that it's really a big change that we had in 2001, because since 2001, another Latin word was societas delinquere non potes means that any kind of legal entity cannot commit a crime. Okay. Because the, the, the, the idea was since the Roman law that you cannot put in prison a legal entity. You cannot put in prison a company. So this was the general idea, general idea, uh, in the criminal law. But, uh, in the United States, uh, since 1970, specifically 1978, the foreign, uh, corruption bribery act, um, sorry, practice act, um, um, um, explain that, uh, it's, that is a really easy explanation, basically the fact that you don't have to put in jail a company, but you can close the company if, uh, the company commit a crime. So, um, um, what is it, this kind of legislative decree is the applicability to the company of a consequence of a criminal offense. To all legal entities, even if foreign, if the offense is committed in Italy and to Italian companies and under certain circumstances, even if it is committed abroad. It's really important when, because if the offense is committed in the interest or the benefit of the company. So when the classical example is an employee, an employee started to, um, attempt, uh, a bribe to a public officer. Uh, I am an employee, a public officer arrived to make an inspection, a downgrade for, for tax reason. And then I say, okay, if you don't, uh, control and you don't make the inspection, uh, in this way, in, but you make the inspection in my favor, I, in the favor of the company, sorry, not in my favor, I will give you, uh, 1,000 euros. Okay. The, the, the, the, the public officer take 1,000 euros, the inspection uh, going as well. And in the past, there was a crime just from the physical person. So the employee and the, uh, um, uh, tax officer. Now the situation is changed because also the, the, the company can be fined from a sanction that goes from, uh, 1,000 point 500 euro up to 1 million point five euro.

But the, what you have to remember, this is the last issue is that you can close the company for a period of time that start from six months up to two years. But when you close a company also for two months, you basically destroy the company because if you close the company for two months, there is no more, uh, uh, revenue. There is no more possibility to, uh, pay, uh, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the salary for the, for the employee. And then at the very end, you have to close the company, um, because you cannot restart. So any kind of, uh, criminal activity committed by a company can lead to the, like you say, death of the company. And this is the really simple example, because when we discuss about, uh, uh, uh, criminal, uh, activity like, uh, bribery, corruption or whatever, it's simple. What, what if, uh, when we discuss about, uh, cyber crime, because cyber crime was connected with the two, three, one with the law 48 of 2008. So since 2008, you can commit any kind of cyber crime without any responsibility of the company, uh, because there was not a possibility to connect to the, the, the, the cyber crime to the, uh, two, three, one law.

With the law 48 of 2008, we had this kind of connection. This is the important part of the law 48 of 2008. The tricky issue is the, the, the, the answer if the offense is committed in the interest or the benefit of the company, because if you follow me, it's really difficult to imagine a crime committed in the, a cyber crime committed in the interest of the company. For example, when I receive an attack, uh, illegal access to an AT system, I am the victim of the crime as a company. So there is no possibility. Yes. The, the, the attacker could, could, could, could have a liability of, uh, to three, one, but the attacker is a cyber criminal, uh, uh, uh, is a cyber criminal, is, is, is, is, is, uh, uh, uh, association of the delinquents is, is, is, is, is, is, uh, is, is, is, is, is, is, there is no interest for them to have the liability because there is a company, uh, that the only propose is to commit crime. So there is no problem for them.

So the point of the illegal access to an AT system creates some problem, but when I use the information of a company, for example, to obtain a client, I commit an illegal access to an AT system that have also a responsibility for the company. Practical example, and this is clear for you. I want to obtain a new client. I'm a company that produce a bottle of water and my client is San Benedetto and I want to obtain also a client like San Pellegrino. So I go to San Pellegrino and say, do you want to know how much is the information about San Benedetto? Because it's a competitor. I can give you some real information because I prepare the bottle. I build the bottle for San Benedetto.

So I give the information to San Pellegrino. San Pellegrino says, OK, thanks. Many thanks for this kind of information. You will become my new product of this kind of bottle. And what happens is that I obtain information from an AT system and I violate this kind of legal access to an AT system because I violate the confidentiality, obviously, of San Benedetto to obtain a new client as it is San Pellegrino. And this is a stupid example, but it happens every single moment in any single company. So it's important to know that this is a crime. So obviously, when you think of information like I can give you because there are some information, for example, there are that are public information.

Okay. And then I try to defend a lot of clients because they say, yes, I gave this information, but this information at the very end was published in a website. I made an innocent activity and then I demonstrated that this information that the company that produced this kind of bottle gave to San Pellegrino, but was also public information. No issue that you can be liable because the intention, again, coming back to the issue, was to violate the confidentiality of San Benedetto. So if the prosecutor is able to demonstrate that you take this information from your AT system and gave to the company, you violate the confidentiality of San Benedetto and your company can be closed because you can have a sanction of two years, up to two years, but also three months.

As I explained to you, as I explained to you, this happened. So it's not always what is the consequence. The fact that you have to demonstrate the interest, the benefit of the company excludes a lot of crime. For example, when you receive a ransomware, there is a cyber crime, but there is no connection with 231 because you are the victim. So there is a crime, there is a damage to an AT system, but the perpetrator is a cyber criminal. So yes, theoretically, again, I want to repeat, you can start a criminal action against 231, against the cracker that made this kind of activity, but it's impossible to discover him. So it does not make any sense, but when you, and this is a case that we will do, but I want to repeat because it's important. When I make a, I want to go, I'm an employee and I have worked for two years in a company and I, and I prepare a lot of activity for this company and was in my brain, I did the activity.

So the perception is that the ownership of that kind of file, code, whatever, that I produce in the company is mine because I did this kind of activity, but it's not mine because the company paid the salary to do this activity for my brain. So all the product that I have done in the company is owned by the company, not owned by me. So, but I want to stress this fact because there is a lot of client that comes to me and say, but I did this kind of work. Yes, I agree with you. You did this kind of work, but for the company, you are paid by the company. So at the very end, you want to go to another company and you take this information because it's your knowledge, I would say. And then you, you take this information and then you bring this information to the other company, not giving to the other company. Just you put in your, in a USB key, no more, but in the past, the USB key was the system.

You put in a USB key and then you, you, you leave only in your laptop, in your new laptop of the new company. But these information are the information that are of the other company. Sometimes it happens and this makes me crazy because they need just for, because they say, yes, I, I want to have some personal information. In some case, there was photo of his brand. So just to give you the idea of that kind of information that you take, that you, that you exfiltrate from the, from the activity. But obviously if it's just photo of your friends is not, but just to give you an idea, there is no crime, but just to give you an idea of what can happen. So when you exfiltrate this information, what happens, that you make illegal access to an AT system. And it happens also that sometimes you understand that you want to do, you want to clean any kind of evidence.

And then, for example, you use a CC cleaner. I don't know if you know this kind of software to destroy the evidence. So the fact that you have installed the CC cleaner, not the fact that you have the evidence, just the fact that you have installed in an AT system of the company, CC cleaner is a crime. It's the evidence that you want to make the damage. Even if I can demonstrate what kind of file have you destroyed, because sometimes it happens that you want to destroy some evidence that, for example, a conversation with the other company or whatever you want to destroy in the laptop of the previous company. So I take this evidence from the company to the other company and the previous company start to have some doubts and call me and they say, OK, what can we do? We can start a criminal charge against this employee. And if we discover some files in the laptop of the employee, we can also charge the company with 231 because there is an interest and a benefit of the company of that kind of crime.

So when you bring your data from a company to another company, you not only take a personal liability, but you can also bring a liability to the new company. Obviously, if you work in Coca-Cola and then you start to work in Trenitalia, basically, there is no big risk to have this kind of trouble. But when you work in Trenitalia and then you start to work in Italy, I tell you for sure that probably the HR manager will say, OK, this person is start to go in Italy and he was a developer and he worked in R&D. And he had a lot of projects in Italy and he had a lot of projects in his lab because he was interested in IT projects connected with Trenitalia. And so probably Trenitalia started an investigation to discover if this person brought some information to Italy.

And then it happens to me again, I have a lot of cases where a lot of information, a lot of sensitive information was stolen, has been stolen by employees. But I have a lot of enormous number of cases where the information stolen was nothing, just some information, just information that was used for the employee for, we could say, practical reason, but not really secret. But even an information that is not really important is an information of the previous company and can give the possibility for the previous company to start a criminal action to the new company and to the person that brings this kind of data. That's why it's important to distinguish the two issues if you change the work in the future. But in the digital forensics perspective, now I take the hat of the digital forensics, it's really important, this activity, because this is corporate forensics, 90% of the activity that really interests to the company is this, to protect their data and to create this kind of also, I would say, terroristic effect, because it's really easy now to exchange data.

Before it was not so easy, but now you have plenty of ways to gather a lot of data, a lot of sensitive data in a second. And that's why this is a crime. So I will stop because I see you that you are a little bit tired, 15 minutes and then we can continue. Yes, yes, yes, yes.

But at that point I'm like you are a little bit more interested in access to data that are not, that didn't tell me about the invasion of IT systems. In what case, in this case, do those two do they apply? Yes, the answer is they are litigating. So for the public minister will always say that there is a concourse that there are common plaintiffs and lethal forces. Okay. So that they apply all the legal access to the IT system, as an insider trading, which is the law on the tube, the test unico, excuse me, the test unico finanziario, which provides the insider trading. In addition, there is an other law, there is a law of society, which is the agiotage. So there is also a restaurant of menu. Like if it were the pasta, in Italy there is the carbonara, the carbonara senza quello, la carbonara... E tu dici, e questa è la posizione del pubblico ministero, perché ovviamente lui corre tra reati e quindi prende il reato più grosso, con la pena di Italia più ampia, e poi ci aggiunge dei pezzettini che sono appunto le continuazioni.

Cioè non può accumulare, mettiamo che il reato di insider trading, adesso non mi ricordo, dovrebbe essere sui 4-5 anni, gli legal access sono da 6 mesi a 3 anni e l'agiotaggio anche quello, forse fino a 5 anni. Quindi lui dice, il più grave è l'inside trading del TUF, il test unico finanziario, e poi ci aggiungo dei pezzi, non può dire 5 più 4 più 3. È continuativo, sì. È continuativo. Bravissimo. Prendi la rapina più grave e poi aggiungi dei pezzettini. Perché dico dei pezzettini? Perché poi anche quella è una decisione del giudice. Cioè il PM dice, ogni rapina in più sono due mesi, l'avvocato dice, no, sono 10 giorni e il giudice deciderà quello che decide, il tempo. Io invece come avvocato dico, no, si applica il principio di specialità, cioè dico, se c'è una legge che è più speciale rispetto alle altre, nel caso specifico mi piacerebbe poter dire il TUF, poi potrei anche cercare di dire, perché mi convenire, mi converrebbe dire 615 ter, però secondo me è arduo dire che, scusami, l'accesso abusivo al sistema telematico.

Meno anni. Meno anni, però non è meno speciale, perché l'accesso abusivo riguarda tutto, invece di cyber trading è più specifico. Quindi diciamo, poi adesso, secondo me, in questo caso non mi permetterei neanche a discutere, perché è chiaro che c'è un concorso di reati per me. Però ci sono casi molto più, dove proprio c'è una sovrapposizione, c'è un reato più specifico, è un reato più grande, che potrebbe essere, cioè c'è il sottinsieme, c'è l'insieme più grande. In quel caso c'è il classico ragionamento del principio di specialità, dove noi cerchiamo di convincere il giudice che deve applicare solo quel reato perché è più specifico. E poi il giudice decide e lì si crea più o meno giurisprudenza, cioè se il giudice decide che si deve fare il concorso, i PM fanno, aprono la doppia, perché possono poi dire siccome c'è stato questo caso, noi possiamo applicare più reati rispetto a questa fattispecie. Ok? Quindi, grazie. E quindi questo... Eh, professore, riguardo all'esempio che faceva del trasferimento in un'altra compagnia, quindi qui del trasferimento iniziali dati di una compagnia che poi vengono, diciamo, dati illecitamente all'altra, se con un dispositivo nella prima compagnia uno avesse conosciuto dati attraverso il cloud, tipo sul proprio Google Drive, e poi queste idee che sente su e le porta nell'altra azienda, questo è reato?

Sì. Ah, comunque, anche se erano, diciamo, nel cloud proprio, personale? Beh, poco cambia, perché, cioè, il problema è erano nel cloud personale e tu quindi non avevi, cioè, ma erano idee dell'azienda o erano idee tue? Diciamo che se sono mie legate all'azienda... Aspetta, due legate all'azienda, sì, sì, tue, nel senso che proprio se erano dei cloud pari completamente tuoi. No, no, no, no, no, sì, dell'azienda che però senti comunque... No, c'è niente dove è il luogo, perché quello che si va a punire è il fatto. Quello che potrei fare se fossi il tuo avvocato, però perderei, sarebbe dire che appunto l'azienda non aveva definito delle policy chiare perché non le avesse definite, perché se le ha proprio definite e quindi tu hai violato due volte perché si è definito delle regole che tu non puoi tenere perché io ti direi già come azienda tu robe dell'azienda non le metti nel tuo cloud. Cioè, questo dovrebbe essere la regola numero uno quando viene assunto ci dovrebbe essere un IT policy che ti dice tu le robe dell'azienda le lasci nell'azienda non le puoi tenere nel tuo cloud.

Ma se non l'avesse fatto se non ci fosse questa regola mi potrei attaccare a questo dicendo lui non lo sapeva però il problema è che se sono dati aziendali dovunque tu le hai messi tu queste cose non le puoi trasferire su un'altra azienda. E invece secondo me volevo chiederle se ad esempio un hacker informatico facesse un data breach e venisse a conoscenza di dati secretati confidenziali e facesse una diretta live tipo stream su Twitch quello che sta vedendo i dati secretati Loggins sta commettendo reato a guardare cosa sta facendo e quindi a guardare i dati noi torniamo al discorso della webcam che diceva Pierfrancesco sì cioè in teoria sì perché è logico che tu comunque vieni a conoscenza nel momento stesso in cui c'è un leak di informazioni che chiaramente tu non puoi venire a conoscenza però è chiaro che nel momento stesso in cui diventa pubblico nessuno neanche lontanamente si può immaginare di iniziare un procedimento penale nei confronti di chi guarda quell'informazione ok ti faccio un esempio perché la stessa logica che ho fatto col caso di Ryan Giggs che era un giocatore di calcio del Manchester che sostanzialmente lui a un certo punto una una persona cioè è andato in un ristorante con una modella e classica foto fatta da da un suo fan la pubblica su Twitter ovviamente la cosa non ha fatto piacere alla moglie Giggs ha perso la testa insieme a questo avvocato che probabilmente non sapeva neanche cosa era Twitter ai tempi e ha fatto è il giudice pure e hanno fatto un ordine per cui hanno dato un'ordine tutti quelli che avevano ripostato ok quell'informazione dovevano rimuovere quel dato se no sarebbero stati poi sanzionati penalmente fatto ridere tutti cioè nel senso certamente astrettamente può avere un senso questo ragionamento però poi la gente dice ragazzi è internet praticabile cioè è internet cioè purtroppo cioè questa cosa qua è un po' il tema di però è giusto che uno si ponga il problema che cosa è giusto o non giusto poi non è detto che quello che non sia giusto è soprattutto nel mondo del digitale può essere è perseguibile in questo caso non è perseguibile grazie grazie il fatto che non fosse reato è la distribuire dati falsi privati perché c'è proprio una legge che ha depenalizzato il falso in scrittura privata si dice in italiano cioè la falsità ma non è diffamazione quella dipende dipende perché stai dando dati privati cioè dati privati no non è detto che sia diffamazione facciamo l'esempio che lui mi manda un email mi dice mandala a una funzionaria del garante caso di scuola per farmi creare un contatto e io invece di scrivere che lui si è laureato in cosa sì potrei sì nel caso in cui io cioè nella alterazione di quell'informazione scrivessi delle cose negative nei suoi confronti sì potrebbe essere sì ragione potrebbe essere una diffamazione ma quindi in ogni caso si può trovare un altro reato però quello quello che volevo cercare di spiegare è che l'alterazione in sé del dato adesso io ho fatto l'esempio dell'email ma tu pensala anche sul codice su altre cose cioè tutto quello che è l'alterazione del dato ok non è più reato in sé ok c'è un limite però certamente se l'alterazione del dato ti porta su altri reati poi hai fatto l'esempio giusto della diffamazione ci sta potrebbe essere anche una diventa però il problema è che non è più reato in sé non è più quello della falsificazione dell'informazione se ad esempio io avessi un codice non è più di codice con una funzione dicendo semplicemente il nome di quella funzione ho alterato non è più un crimine quello se quell'attività che hai fatto in quel preciso istante non è un crimine però giustamente l'ho anche detto poi in classe non ci dobbiamo preoccupare perché normalmente non lo fai per il puro gusto di farlo ma lo fai perché vuoi fare una frode vuoi fare dei danni a qualcuno e allora normalmente poi o è una frode o una diffamazione non in questo caso sicuramente eccetera e quindi a quel punto ti attacchi con l'alterato però siccome in un momento in cui l'alterazione cioè una volta alterare un documento scritto era un casino cioè falsificare una firma dovevi essere bravo oggi invece alterare un documento digitale lo si fa in 30 secondi è stato un po' assurdo che abbiamo depenalizzato cioè non abbiamo più reso un reato quello magari in un momento invece in cui bisognava rinforzare l'attenzione sulla possibile falsificazione chiaro quindi tutto sempre giusto in qualche modo la si sistema cioè se vuoi la risposta però la falsificazione in sé non è più reato quel momento lì a meno che tu non falsifichi un documento pubblico cioè se io falsifico ti faccio un esempio un documento io falsifico per il puro gusto sempre il voto di esame di Pierfrancesco ok ma poi non vado a condizionare non vado a condizionare quindi solo il fatto che io abbia alterato il documento ok è reato punto poi invece se io ovviamente cambiassi è comunque interessante se io cambiassi il voto quale potrebbe essere il reato se io cambiassi il voto di Pierfrancesco cioè di leciti amministrativi c'è un quantitativo infinito però il reato in sé è proprio il falso in atto pubblico quindi sì cioè quello rimane un reato se fosse invece in scrittura privata cioè se fosse tra private ma non è questo il caso perché un voto universitario non sarebbe stato reato in questo caso forse è un caso dove non c'è una conseguenza penalistica quanto rienta il fatto che ho ripensato all'esame di Pierfrancesco ho detto che quella virgola che aveva scritto non mi piace più e gli abbasso il voto o glielo alzo quando è che finisce un limite e inizia un altro però quello è il motivo per cui sì infatti che ho cercato anche di spiegare è molto difficile opinare sul voto del professore però sì comunque sì sono d'accordo in teoria se volessimo ragionare all'esatto opposto cioè che perché io la ragiono in maniera difensiva cioè l'esempio che hai fatto mi tutelerebbe tantissimo il fatto che io posso sempre giustificare un'alterazione di un voto però in questo caso proprio l'ho fatto che poi c'è anche il tema dell'intenzionalità no?

perché magari invece mettiamo il caso ti vuoi fare una cosa bastarda io mi sbaglio cioè uno mi dice facciamo con tutti i casini che possono succedere non funziona il pc quindi uno mi dà l'esame scritto lo perdo gli do il voto sbagliato se scrivo 27 scrivo 28 è quello che cos'è una falsificazione come facciamo a dimostrare se io ti ho voluto agevolare è difficile quindi da un lato taglia da due lati se sei brava a dimostrare la tua buona fede dice io mi sono sbagliato come fa il giudice a non capire che magari su 137 voti puoi sbagliarti su uno però dall'altro lato potrebbe essere invece assolutamente un falso in atto pubblico però c'è sempre il fatto come ha detto prima lei che deve comunque essere qualcuno che fa una denuncia lo studente no falso in atto pubblico però come fanno come fa se non lo sa nessuno no dai quello lo sanno tutti perché tu beh tu che magari se te lo alzo stai tranquillo che ma se te lo abbasso come la sensazione che però siamo sempre magari noi abbiamo un nostro un nostro metro di giudizio magari il fatto che scatta anche solo per un voto quindi io magari per un voto dico boh non sarà più la mia risposta ok però comunque il grado c'è come si è grado di mostrare questa cosa è una zona di amici simulatissimi è vero e se invece io tipo stessi facendo l'application per una zona l'altra lui dichiarasti per falso quella è sempre 30 invece di 25 bellissimo esempio perché in questo caso ovviamente secondo me è un falso in scrittura privata quindi non è un reato di falso cioè che poi comunque la depenalizzazione vuol dire che c'è una sanzione amministrativa quindi una multa comunque ci sarebbe però la paghi su 500 euro però vai a fraudare una persona è una froda è quella perché tu stai facendo una falsa attestazione finalizzata a darti delle qualifiche che non hai e quindi farti assumere però in realtà quindi tu hai due persone offese lui che non è stato assunto perché tu hai dichiarato il falso e quindi già il primo persona offesa lui e poi la seconda persona offesa sono io azienda che pensavo che tu avessi preso 30 invece hai preso 25 quindi cioè io sicuramente potrei partire con un esame con un procedimento penale per truffa poi fino a quando sono cose scritte per esempio io dico che so programmare in Python e so fare lavoro di gruppo ovviamente ovviamente no ovviamente no ovviamente ma nessuno partirebbe mai cioè non ho mai visto partire cioè fare un procedimento penale no però sai dipende perché poi più che altro magari ci sono tanti concorsi pubblici dove invece le qualifiche delle persone possono andare ad impattare lì magari oltre che il falso in atto pubblico ci sono anche probabilmente anche dei procedimenti di truffa nell'azienda private no non tanto grazie riguarda quando parlato del mutuo del live quella diciamo era una considerazione che avevamo fatta tutta per valorizzare il processo del processo robatorio c'era una parte di però non era diciamo l'MLAT non è stata diffusa la Cybercare Convention la Cybercare Convention promuove i'MLAT che però devono essere degli accordi che avvengono tra stati quindi gli stati tra di loro dicono siamo tutti questi che hanno firmato la convenzione possono poi fare degli accordi MLAT Mutual Legal Assistant Treaty quindi la convenzione esprime un po' il principio cioè dice chi ha sottoscritto questa convenzione deve accettare il fatto che ci possa essere l'accordo che però poi va stipulato tra stati quindi prova ad essere concreto noi abbiamo fatto la convenzione nel 2001 nel 2006 Italia e Stati Uniti hanno fatto un mutuo di l'assistiment treaty che appunto ha previsto una procedura più rapida per ottenere le informazioni sapete cosa la differenza quindi diciamo c'è una regola generale la convenzione esprime sempre dei principi che poi devono essere calati o nel singolo stato membro con la legge 48 del 2008 che è vista adesso che stiamo vedendo adesso oppure ci deve essere poi un caso specifico del mutuo legge assistentriti quelli che diciamo fanno parte della convenzione sono tenuti a fare l'accordo però poi l'accordo deve essere fatto dagli stati dai governi quindi faccio un esempio se io ho fatto firmato la convenzione non sono tanto lontani dall'oggi domani mattina c'è una guerra tra due stati che hanno firmato la convenzione è chiaro che loro indipendentemente dalla guerra dovrebbero andare avanti però chiaramente magari posticipano un po' gli appuntamenti perché sai com'è si stanno bombardando però la convenzione è bella perché rimane quindi magari ci possono essere delle interruzioni degli interessi politici anche economici che ti possono rallentare però quel principio rimane quindi prima o poi se tu vuoi lo vai a riprendere e quella roba di cui tu hai firmato in qualche modo ti vincola certo è che il problema è in quanto tempo magari ci sono stati dei casi sto pensando ai casi delle convenzioni di guerra dove poi magari sono state applicate le cose a distanza di 50 60 70 anni dopo perché magari certe regole a favore degli israeliani sono state applicate molto più tardi perché magari se erano stati fatti dei principi poi nel concreto era difficile applicarlo queste cose ok grazie questa è una domanda super genuina anche rispetto a quello che abbiamo fatto oggi è vero che i siti di streaming sono liberi però io posso accedere e premendo play riesco a vedere una partita quindi violando il copyright idealmente sto compriendo un crimine anche se non sto pagando nessuno ma certo certo certo idealmente ma anche molto quello è più pericoloso secondo me degli esempi astrati che abbiamo fatto su webcam che comunque ci sono i siti certo ma quelli non gliene proprio niente no no gliene cioè qual è l'interesse il problema è che perché non c'è un interesse di un soggetto specifico ma c'è al massimo un interesse collettivo ma il problema è che quando tu hai un Dazon che in questo momento deve fare cassa perché deve pagare poi le squadre di calcio un sistema e quindi lo Stato stesso ha tutto un interesse a far sì che Dazon possa rispondere denaro perché fondamentalmente se no le squadre di calcio non vengono cioè quindi è un sistema circolare lo Stato preme tanto su questa cosa quindi attenzione perché lì invece lì è un reato 171 ter tu comunque se accedi ad un'informazione portata dal diritto d'autore e non c'è neanche la questione della consapevolezza neanche la questione 171 ter non ti viene neanche la consapevolezza semplicemente stai accedendo tu dirai non lo sapevo figlio mio però io anche se il diritto d'autore purtroppo è molto severo l'unico tema è che l'infarsabilità è impossibile cioè è impossibile beccare il tuo cioè teoricamente no teoricamente ti possono beccare però se il sito è o stato nelle isole fare oe dove non si ricorda niente il signore dove si trova però io comunque sto guardando la pubblicità che Dazon sta trasmettendo quindi in un certo senso è è un vantaggio ma Dazon non può certificarla quella cosa lì cioè tu non stai Dazon ha un milione di utenti avrebbe un milione e uno di utenti se tu ci fossi potrebbe far pagare di più la pubblicità tu stai vedendo una pubblicità ci sta guadagnando chi ha fatto l'inserzione perché chi ha fatto l'inserzione ha molti utenti che però Dazon non può certificare e quindi Dazon ce l'ha un po' nel sedere chi ci guadagna è chi ha fatto l'inserzione che però in realtà interessa di meno perché chi paga poi tutta questa meccanismo è Dazon cioè alla fine rispetto al sistema poi è vero che Dazon paga sulla base dell'inserzionista però non soltanto anche sulla cosa del diritto d'autore credo che ci saranno sempre di più grandi attenzioni cioè io ho lavorato tanto per Mediaset e per altre cose io per esempio ho assistito Roia Directa ai tempi bel progetto mi piaceva tanto siamo riusciti per il rotto della cuffia a non farlo incriminare a Roma ma abbiamo dovuto fare degli accordi abbastanza seri ai tempi con Sky perché ai tempi non c'era ancora Dazon e da lì in poi abbiamo capito che è davvero dura è davvero dura cioè nel senso poi è chiaro che c'è un business talmente interessante sto parlando di pezzotti che continuerà fino a che non ci saranno domani però secondo me dal punto di vista difensivo dal punto di vista tecnico difensivo è praticamente impossibile cioè adesso proprio non hai più armi per difendere chi viola il diritto d'autore cioè se ti beccano ma non ti beccano però se ti beccano però quindi è crimine non è una no no è crimine e una volta appunto come dicevo era fatta male anche la legge per cui tu avevi le sanzioni fino perché ogni opera violata sto parlando dei tempi vecchi di prezzo 103 euro a opera fino a 1032 quindi in teoria tu potevi fare 1000 per 1000 adesso è tutto fatto molto bene perché comunque a livello legislativo si sono tutti impegnati il problema è l'enforcement il problema è beccare le persone però dal punto di vista tecnico legale una volta che l'hanno beccata la persona è un guai perfetto va bene grazie Aspio e Francesco scrivi scrivile perché poi non ho più spazio per farla l'open day va assolutamente fatto ci mancherebbe non c'è l'azione ma no scusate poi dopo la volta dopo è il venerdì sanzo non c'è l'azione della venerdì sanzo e adesso sentirò a seni perché perdere due lezioni non che a me di spiano scherzo il problema è che poi dopo noi vogliamo recuperare come facciamo con i vostri calendari che è un casino però dall'altro lato l'open day è molto importante per voi quindi sicura se c'è l'open day sicuri che c'è l'open day si fa le lezioni sicuramente cioè è vero che potrei fare lezioni ma assolutamente non lascio spazio l'open day anzi magari vado anch'io a vederlo che è importante quindi no bel casino grazie grazie per avermi detto scusate vado un attimo in bagno e poi iniziamo in bagno What we have with it And it seems like it's not easy to do but the idea that I want to play you have to use the code and it's also the same thing I think that's consistent I think it's just getting into that I think it's really about Thank you.

I have a bit of a question. I have a question. I would like to answer a question. I would like to answer a question. I would like to answer some questions and answer a question. i gave my to the first person i did something I played with the most I am exactly I played with theiras I played with the girls I do I was petite I was just really What can they feed I think Is my I can't I know what the I can I always see Run I Speaking okay guys we can continue okay so we were at the two three one and then we can go really fast don't worry in about 30 minutes we have finished the i was telling 30 minutes we we we have finished all this slide don't worry about this but it's important to remember the fact that the two three one is the law that give to the corporate to the the criminal liability to the corporation to the company unless and this is the last part that we have to remember the company has created a compliance program compliance program is for the italian speak person modello di organizazione so and why it's important the compliance program not for the exam but for you because in the compliance program you should create all the rule also from an it perspective to avoid the commission of the crime so why i was telling the two three one can be really interesting for you in the compliance world for the person that are interested in the compliance issue because in the compliance program you can put all the rule to avoid the commission of the crime there is no obviously the possibility to have a complete compliance program because if it exists a compliance program we would not have more crime so it's impossible to find the perfect compliance program but one of the issue that is connected with the with the compliance program is that the it policy the it security the classification of data all the issue that we have also seen in the cyber security and law course should be really important because we have seen that now any kind of crime that is committed in a company pass through digital device pass through a violation of security pass through all this kind of activity so it's really really important to understand that it could be an opportunity for you obviously in a to to to to work in the compliance field but it's also an issue that we should respect in a proper sense so the compliance program is the possibility to avoid the criminal liability for a company so what the company should demonstrate should demonstrate all the effort to avoid the commission of the crime so if a company have a compliance program that is really really good and they and they verify every single day that this compliance program is respected the prosecutor could decide not to prosecute the company because they said okay the company one employee of the company has committed a crime the comp the crime is in the interest of the company but at the same time the company has demonstrated all the effort so as you see now all these rules that you will have in your future are not more black and white because you see in the gdpr you will see in the ai act that i also described and you will see now also in 231 all these rules are based on the accountability principle so the idea that if you don't do anything i will punish you in administrative way and in this situation in a criminal way but if you demonstrate the effort and the idea to create some rule i can avoid your liability and this create an enormous space for the compliance future for the for the future of the compliance i know that it could be really boring but it's an opportunity for you because the compliance is a mix between it issue and legal issue um and why we have this compliance uh scenario or future because the possibility to enforcement to enforce the criminal liability the administrative liability is really difficult uh we live in a world that is every day more complex and so the idea is to delegate in a certain sense the private actor to do some activity that in the past was made by the public sector so just to explain very well uh we were discussing with per francesco before about the streaming issue the streaming issue is uh so the pirate uh view of for example football match theoretically we have a perfect uh legal system that uh create the possibility for every single person that view uh a match uh a match even if it's not paid with pezzotto but it's pay with it's not paid create the possibility to incriminate this person what is the big issue that we have in the in the legal system the possibility to create enforcement okay so the possibility to find the person that view uh and see sorry um the the the the match so the you can extend this this example that you can extend this example that you can extend this example that we made before with all the other uh activity that uh uh an employee can commit for example when we discuss about the uh um uh insider trading issue or when we discuss about any kind of uh uh uh illegal access to an AT system the real problem is to demonstrate this kind of fact so we are in a situation where we have all the the rule but especially with the uh anonymity anonymity that create uh created by the the digital device it's really difficult to find the evidence so from one side and that's why i love digital forensics the digital forensics discipline can give you the possibility to discover the evidence but as you will see and probably you have seen with with the with the professor atseni or you will see in the next future it's not always a victory for the computer forensics expert to find the evidence because it's really difficult especially in in an investigation that involved cloud system to obtain and to have the evidence so the other social answer that we had to keep a society respectfully in the law is to enforce the law is to enforce the compliance and the compliance is i give you the responsibility to to to to to respect the law and i can make a prize uh and i can give you uh for your effort and i can give you some benefit if you respect the law and this is the the basic principle of the accountability so it's as we are not able not because we are not able but not only because we are not able but not only because we are not able but also because it's really difficult we try to give you some rule that you have to implement in your company and that's why there is all the need and all this law really strange that is not black and white but give you the uh the possibility to demonstrate your effort and to avoid the liability one of this law is the 231 the the criminal sanction the the the the the possibility to close the company by the law enforcement by the law enforcement by the prosecutor is made by also the the fact that you have a good compliance program so this is a slide that explain what are the main crime that are covered by the corporate career reliability of 231 the current games public administration tax offense moneylandry blah blah blah This is obviously computer crimes.

Again, what is important for the exam is this slide. All the stuff that I have explained to you is really important for me, for your future, but not for the exam, just to be clear. So what I will add, as I anticipate, is this slide about the strict crime, damage to an IT system, illegal access to an IT system, and the false on IT system, any kind of false activity on IT system, but you will have this information. I will not ask you about all the detail, but it's important for you to understand how it works. You can also put in the open question that I will make, but these are the two principles really important. Now we can go a little bit faster to see the main innovation of the Law 48 of 2008. The first issue was the found for combating child pornography online. I mentioned before when there was this question, one of the main issues that we had since 2006 was the explosion of child pornography problem.

Now the situation is not obviously solved, but due to the activity that is made by the provider, that is made by the Interpol, now the situation is a little bit limited in respect of what was in 2006. There was an explosion of that kind of file, photo, video. Now, if we have found, we will say in general terms, a culture that agree, that put in the same situation, all the state in the world is the child pornography. But again, there are some exceptions. For example, do you know that there is a state where child pornography is not a crime? And if yes, do you know what state it is? Nobody of us know. Thailand is a place where there is no crime of child pornography. So there is a lot of tourism in Thailand of good persons that want to go there to do this kind of activity.

So, again, if you also think that, and this is a clear example of how it's complex to find an agreement, coming back to the point of the convention, because, for example, if you go in Thailand, you have this, and it's also if you have a server in Thailand, it could be difficult to prosecute this person for child pornography content. But Interpol and all the providers decided to work together to avoid this explosion of images that are absolutely not correct. So the child pornography line is one of the issues where, basically, apart from Thailand, we all agree. Then the main innovation was amendments to data retention law. We will see then in detail. Obviously, the international mutual assistance between convention member and signatory states. International, before I received a question that was interesting, the difference between the mutual assistance legal treaty and the convention.

So the convention, again, I want to repeat to everybody, if you give the possibility to involve the party, the member, the signatory party, sorry, to do an agreement. So one state like Italy and one state like U.S. in 2006 decided to create this mutual legal assistance treaty to accelerate the exchange of evidence between Italy and the United States. And this was also enhanced by the law 48 of 2008. And then the last part, but not least, is the acquisition of digital evidence. So change to the criminal procedural code to regulate the collection and use of digital and telematic digital evidence. Basically, it's the same. So what are the key provisions? The key provision is the first one is the international cooperation. The preservation, because we implement the fact, if you remember, the preservation of the data.

It's really important. Remember this, because if you will do in the future any kind of computer forensics activity, the preservation is one of the first things that you have to do when you have to manage a cloud system, because you can ask in an easy way the preservation of data. And also in Italy, it's the possibility to preserve data for up to 90 days. And this period can extend until six months, to six months. Then the other procedural update, really important, was the fact that there was the competence of the Court of Appeal, the main district. So what happened in this case? It happens that due to the fact that the cyber crime is really difficult to understand and you need the competence, you need the expert, you need the computer forensics consultant, all this kind of stuff.

You don't have more the single city, like, for example, Pinerolo, that has the competence on computer crime, because you cannot have all the experts in Pinerolo. I don't have any problem with Pinerolo, just to be clear. But just to give an example, when you have to start an investigation that involves cyber crime, digital investigation, the only Court of Appeal that is competent is Turin. So we have, I don't remember, I would say 36 Court of Appeal districts in Italy, that are really huge. Perhaps you can Google the number if you're interested. I'm not sure about the number. But anyway, you have Milan, you have Turin, you have, for example, Brescia, because it's an important part of, because there is, the district are not connected to the main city.

A city of the region, but it's connected to the number of persons that lives in that district. So it depends. So it's not connected. It depends on what the situation. So you have, for example, in Basilicata, only one, because there is not many people. But in Lombardy, you can have three, four, because there are many people. So this is the reason why you have this kind of district. But anyway, this is not important to see how it works, the district. But it's important to understand the fact that this law understood the fact that you cannot start the complexity of the cybercrime needed to have a centralization of the activity. And this is really important, because I don't know if it never happened to you to file a charge in a little postal police or in a little police station. You immediately understand that you probably not have the possibility to have the competence to understand the kind of crime that you are described, especially when you are discussing about digital crimes or cybercrime.

So basically, it's important to put all this kind of crime in a centralized unit. For example, here in Turin, there is a unit that is specific on cybercrime, also in Milan, also in Rome, also in Naples. So you have a specific unit of policemen and law enforcement that work on this. And this is also an opportunity for you, for the person that wants to work in the computer forensic side, because you have some person in the law enforcement side that are really experts, and they can understand the role of digital forensics, the role of the activity. If you decentralized to any party, you probably cannot have the money to have in a single single city in Italy. We have a lot of cities in Italy that can have this kind of competence. This is important also to understand how it works, the cybercrime issue and all the computer forensics issue connected to the cybercrime. Then service provider role.

It's important because, as I explained to you, we have data retention, traffic data, seizure of correspondence, communication, and seizure of digital data or data. So what we have understood is that we need to make a comparison between digital data, sorry, digital correspondence and physical correspondence. This I was explaining to you before. So this law gives the possibility to make a comparison, a parification, I would say, between the two. So the same warranty should be given, even if, obviously, we understand that a letter, if it's closed, you cannot have, you can have, it's not comparable to an email that is not read or read. So it's difficult to explain this concept. I hope that I am clear, but in the physical world, you have a letter and the letter is inside the envelope and the envelope is closed.

So if you have to open, the idea, if you remember the sigilo is the fact that you can close this information for everybody. Because if you open the letter, you break the seal, now, indeed, if you have a read email, yes, I can read the email and then I can go and click the right button. And then I can put this email and then I can put this email as an read, as the same. So it's not the same issue. It's not the same issue. So it's difficult to give the same warranty from a, also practical point, because you cannot have two million of letters, physical letters in your house. It could be possible, but it's really unlikely. It's really likely that you have two million of emails in your inbox. So also this is another situation.

And so the other question that we discuss a lot is, can we make some analysis and forensics analysis with the correspondence? And then the general idea was not because we have to protect the correspondence, but now we have seen that if you do, especially now with AI, but also before with some filter, you can do a lot of digital forensics analysis on the email. You can reconstruct in a second some timeline of the event and a lot of information that really are for the investigation. So at the very end, we decided that we need the approval of a judge. We cannot leave to the prosecutor the fact that we are going to take the correspondence, but basically we can have access to digital correspondence. The other issue that was introduced by the law of 48 of 2008 was the fact that I can, and this is really interesting part, I can seizure, sequestrar a server of the service provider if it contains evidence that is useful for me.

This makes a lot of problems, a lot of problems, a lot of problems, a lot of trouble for the provider in Italy. Remember that you have Aruba, you have Italian online, you have a team, you have a lot of Italian providers that have our data. But we have also some international providers that now, especially in the last year, have started to put data centers in our country. Also AWS, Amazon has some data centers in Italy. Not so many, like obviously in other countries of the world, but also international providers start to put data centers in Italy. So this law gives the possibility to enter in that data center and says, okay, I seize this data center. Tricky point, because if I seize the data center, it means in the idea of the law enforcement that they block the activity of the data center.

And on the other part is, okay, you are completely crazy. In this data center, there are data of 1 million of users. You want to seize all the activity of 1 million of users because one user has committed a crime. The answer is yes. Then at the very end is not, we found an agreement. And now, even if there is this possibility to seize a data center, if you think that one of the server, one of the client has committed a crime, basically you leave the floor to the owner of the data center, to the service provider, to make a forensics copy of the data, and then give the possibility to the law enforcement and the expert to make the analysis. So this was a sort of mediation because the law was written in a sense that gives this kind of power, but the practical possibility to block, in a certain sense, to seize for a certain period of time.

And also, theoretically, the search and seizure gives the possibility also to take the server. So you can also, in a theoretical way, take this data center and bring this data center to the police station in a theoretical way. But then now, what happens is that there is, when it happens, when law enforcement makes this kind of request, you can use, with the forensics way, the copy of that data. Sometimes they ask the copy of all the information that are present in that server, and then they can make an analysis to obtain information. Anyway, apart from this, the issue that you have to remember is that seizure of digital data, ensuring, obviously, we measure that ensuring the data is copied without modification while the original data is preserved.

Legal recognition of computer forensics. This was the principle, the main principle of the law 48. So the law marks a significant step toward integrating computer forensics into investigative practice, establishing clear protocols for handling digital evidence in line with the scientific advancement. So the evolution of this practice will require ongoing updates as technology process progresses. As you see, the general, but we will see in the last, in this slide, the law emphasizes best practice advocating procedures that acquire evidence without altering the original device, authenticate the evidence in its digital copy, ensure the examination and reputability. So it means that you have to do a bitstream copy and the copy of the bitstream copy, and maintaining partiality in technical analysis. This rule was written in the law, but at the same time, there was no, as I explained before, a practical guidelines that was produced by the government.

For example, it's not necessary in the parliament. It's called ministerial decree, so the Ministry of Justice could make some decree to explain in a practical way how to implement this situation. And also this law, remember this distinction, this is important. Please, this is important. Again, I will repeat. It's only applicable to criminal law. So a tricky question that could be posed during the exam is, ah, can you apply digital forensics principle in an inspection made by tax office in an administrative proceeding? The answer is no. So the rule, the reputability, the bitstream, all the stuff that explain perfectly Professor Razzini, and then we will do in the laboratory, can apply, can be applied in Italy only in the criminal proceeding.

That's why we concentrate ourselves on the criminal proceeding. But when there is a tax inspection, now there is an idea for the tax offices in Italy to respect this rule, but it's a voluntary activity made by the tax officer. You cannot pretend to the tax officer to respect the digital forensics principle. You understand that this is a really important part because only in criminal proceeding, you can basically have the certainty that the evidence are treated in a way that is correct. In the administrative proceeding, it's not like this. Now, again, also in the data protection inspection, especially in the case of data breach, you can have this kind of procedure, but it's just a voluntary procedure made by the public officer.

The public officer is not compelled, is not obliged to respect this kind of principle. So again, please remember this part is important because it could be a tricky issue. If I start to avoid the criminal issue asking, sometimes there is the tricky point of the exam. So you have to remember that the rule now is applicable only for the criminal proceeding. So I already explained this part. The law includes provision for ceasing email communication, equating, I don't know the pronunciation, traditional and electronic mail under legal protection. So ceasing email communication. I stress this part just to give you an idea that we had a long discussion, but the very end, it's not a big issue. Now we can do, obviously, this activity and it is a fundamental part of the investigation.

WhatsApp, instant messaging. So all the instant messaging and all the email give 80% of the information for an investigation. But we have reached this part in a long activity made by the jurisprudence. So the law addresses changes to the code of criminal proceeding, expanding the scope of investigative measure like inspection and seizure to include digital environments. So digital inspection and searches. So new provision mandate technical measure to preserve the integrity of original data and prevent alteration. These measures are crucial given the volatile nature of digital evidence, which can be affected by inadvertent action during investigation. So we have to just, it's not really important for the exam, but it's important to avoid a confusion.

There is a difference between searches and inspection. So search and seizure is, in Italian, perquisizione e sequestro. It's when you arrive and you want to physically, so body of the person or materially, so the house of the investigated person, you want to search some evidence of the crime. And then you can seize this evidence, the evidence of the crime. So in a physical world, it's really simple. I go to the house of Pier Francesco Giuseppe. It's fine if I find drug and drug. If I find drug, I can seize the drug. In the digital world, the situation is quite complex. So the search, the first issue is the seizure. Sorry. Indeed, I also wrote a paper that explained that we have to invert the word. Because basically, the first issue is the seizure, and then you have to do the search.

Because you cannot, it's not like in-house. So the issue that you have to seize the laptop, and then you start to find what is in the laptop. So, and this is what happened now. Also today, after 18 years, there are many, many law enforcement that take the laptop with them. So the seizure is a physical seizure of the laptop. It's not a digital copy of the laptop, a bitstream copy. Fortunately, it happens not always. The 90% of the cases is the digital copy, the bitstream copy of the laptop. But there is also the possibility to do the digital inspection. The digital inspection is, I will do an inspection of the device in real time. And as you probably remember, the real-time forensics. It's, have you discussed about real-time forensics with the professor Razzini?

Not yet. Okay, I will discuss with him. So I will coordinate the two issues when we do the laboratory. It's really difficult. Because the risk to alterate the evidence, it's absolutely more than a bitstream copy. Because with the bitstream copy and the copy of the bitstream copy, you will not risk anything. Because you have always the original. But when you do a digital inspection in real time, you are going to work with the evidence. So if you don't use the right system, the right blocker, the right measure, that Professor Razzini will explain rather better than I, you can risk to destroy the evidence. But the digital inspection, so it's different. So it's another measure that is given with this law, even if it's potential risky. It's risky. Then the preservation order is introduced. Again, it's also explained before.

It's the one that 90 days up to six months introduces a rapid measure to secure digital evidence before it's lost or tampered. So the standardization of digital evidence procedure, these are more, again, blah, blah, blah. I already explained to you that this principle, I will repeat another time. The issue is the fact that we don't have a specific procedure made in detail. So the acquisition, the preservation and the presentation of evidence in the court would help overcome previous inconsistency, ensuring the integrity and the authenticity of digital evidence become a priority to ensure its admissibility in legal proceeding. Then, the implementation of this law increased the responsibility of judges and legal professionals to understand the technical aspect of digital forensics.

Without proper training, there is a risk that digital evidence could be misinterpreted or not fully understood. As a result, there is a growing emphasis on providing specialized training in digital forensics for those working in the judicial and law enforcement. Obviously, you will see me as pessimistic when we talk about digital forensics for the reason that I explain a lot of time. But again, this law emphasizes this fact. So I have absolutely to recognize that this law creates a culture of digital forensics experts and computer forensics experts. I do not know exactly about the judge, but some judge, for example, I made every year a course in the Consiglio Superiore della Magistratura, the most important board, I would say, for the prosecutor.

So to help them to understand the impact of digital forensics and the impact of the Law 48 of 2008 in their activity. So just to give another example. Digital forensics is heavily dependent on the integrity and authenticity of data. So Law 48 of 2008 emphasized the importance of ensuring the data is unaltered during acquisition and properly preserved. So sorry if I go fast here, but all these principles are really clear, are really repeated. It's important to remember this principle, but I do not have to explain too much. So we can finish this lesson with three K's, but just really fast, because then in the last, in the next, oh, the next, it will be the 10th of April. Unfortunately, because some students tell me that there is the, the open day next Friday.

See, this is a mess for me because then there is Easter holidays. And so we will see us in three weeks. That is good because you have the time to say, you and I have the time to work with Professor Atzeni, but at the same time, for the laboratory, but at the same time, for me, it's a problem because I do not know if I have the time to do all. But not for me, but for you, because you have a calendar that is quite complex. And so I do not know how can I take back my, my, my lesson. I was sure about the 3rd of April, but I did not know about the 27th of March. But anyway, there is the open day and I totally agree with you that it's important, absolutely more important than the open day. And then probably it's already in the sense that you don't see, you confirm me that you don't see the lesson on the 27th. Okay. So they have already decided for me. So no, no, no issue.

But I agree. Anyway, I agree that the fact that if you ask me, I also would say the same things. It's more important than the open day. The problem is that I don't know. I do not know when, if I have the time before the finish of the course. I will, I will, I will manage this issue with the, with the university and try to find another day to, to save these, these two lessons. Because also to tell you the truth, my fault, I consider in the time also the 3rd of April, because I forget that, I forgot the fact that there was Easter holiday. So now I have to, we have two lessons to, to, to save. Um, okay, so phishing case where data from service provider was seized to trace illegal transaction. Okay. Um, there is a lot of activity in the phishing case. And the problem is that sometimes there is many, many requests I have to manage. I had to manage last week for Italian online, one, one request for that.

And the problem basically is that this kind of information are not so helpful because again, when you discover this, apart from the traffic data, but also the content data that are connected to a phishing case, they cannot lead to anything. So the big issue is to explain to the, um, person that wants to, to take this information that is absolutely not useful because they are not, uh, uh, based 99.9% of the case, you will not discover anything. Then you have the organized crime and communication monitoring. In this case, you have, I have to tell you that, uh, and I also explain you a little bit better how is important the interception and the word tapping. But the problem of word tapping is that you need the, uh, um, collaboration of Interpol and Europol, but basically it's better Interpol. As you know, Interpol is an organization composed by all the law enforcement in the world that work together to combating crime, basically not cyber crime, but also cyber crime.

So the Interpol is an organization that could, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh up information in this in this case i i had the opportunity to see the the effect and when you when you can make a cooperation between three four five states in the same time you can obtain good information but this kind of cooperation is only made when there is in a certain sense this is correct organized crime terrorism and really really serious organized crime so for example sometimes even if we had mafia case they don't accept the cooperation how it works interpol the police the law enforcement in a in a country postal police can have a sorry in the postal police there is one of the person that work in postal police and working carabinieri and working polizia normally is more polizia di stato and postal police that has a connection with the interpol so if you want to have and you have international crime you can ask to this person to create a contact with the interpol the interpol is one of the main um site in in the world and in europe is in leon is not far from here from turin and you have this center where uh the person that work around the world work together to start to help that country uh to to conduct this investigation obviously there is an evaluation of the severity and the um uh possibility to obtain in real terms of evidence but there is a lot of um possibility to do that the law 48 of 2008 obviously enhance this possibility to create and to involve um um in coordination with europol and uh interpol europol obviously is the same issue but is limited to europe so it's it's also important europol but it's less important rather than interpol because especially in the digital forensics world you need to go uh uh um most of the time in united states um the last case that i want to present you but then we will go absolutely in detail is the cyber stalking several cases of cyber stalking have used digital forensics to track the origin of online threats investigators were able to trust identify offenders using traffic data analysis analysis and ip identification cyber stalking uh especially in italy especially with the red code that is was made in in in the last year i think 2015 if i remember well to protect especially a woman but not only um give the um the power to the law enforcement to obtain this information so the combination of the cyber stalking law and the law 48 of 2008 give the possibility to have a privileged access to some traffic data again and then i conclude the point is but then we come back to article 32b of the convention when we have um cyber crime issue we have to see for example pornography organized crime terrorism cyber stalking we have to see that the intention of the provider is more important sometimes rather than the law because because we have the article 32b so when we talk about google law metal law and all this kind of stuff is because at the very end if zakenberg at a certain point said okay i don't want to have more cyber stalking you can have cooperation with cyber stalking then arrived trump zakenberg say oh wow it's wonderful cyber stalking it's perfect and then we don't have the protection in cyber stalking so this is the crazy issue that we have now so it's the point that when you give to a private party the possibility to decide about public right because this is right but it's also in the public interest sorry um it is we have a situation where every single time is changed something changed in the past we had a wonderful cooperation when we talk about cyber stalking but this is the problem of the article 32b so that's why it's important article 32b so we have finished the case of the um type of corporate investigation that is made in the mail is it will be one of the case that we will go uh through um uh during the the the the laboratory i can i will i want to work with the professor at senate to see exactly where is it uh so i can probably it's not important it's not part of the exam i will repeat also at the end so don't worry there is nothing to to study here uh probably you have to study but uh but only if we will do in the laboratory now i want to see exactly what are the case that are connected with the the the lesson of professor atseni so i can merge the the information of professor atseni with the with my laboratory so it could be a good opportunity for you to have this kind of um coordination okay guys i finish and good friday and see you on 10 of april that i can anticipate to you that probably will be online because i could be abroad not in it not in italy but i i'm not sure about that i will keep informing you you
