
Okay, can we start again? I'm sorry, also today I try to speak louder, also today the microphone is not recharged, so I need to use my raw voice, but I hope this will be enough. Quick check, can you hear me from the bottom? That's perfect, can you hear me also from remote on the virtual classroom? Let's see, okay, perfect, perfect, everything seems working fine, good. So, last time we addressed some relevant concepts like chain of custody, data acquisition, and well, red blockers, some very key forensic image, very important, very key point in a forensic investigation, and concluded discussing some possible typical scenarios in which a forensic expert can be involved, not only from a legal perspective, but also from a technical one in order to improve the awareness inside an organization, and to find out what happened, who was involved, why the sequence of actions happened, for what purpose, for what reason, with what kind of goal in mind of the agents that performed the actions, and we stopped at that point. 

Any question for that, or remarks that you want to discuss right now on the previous week concepts? Okay, if not, we can start with another topic that are the investigation phases. The investigation phases are the main phases in which an investigation process can be split. Well, first of all, I need to clarify the fact that the investigation phases that I'm going to present are a conceptual frame, not something that is inherently valuable, it's a kind of steps that are useful to understand what you should do, what are the subtleties in any set of different actions, and so on. 

So, they are useful not by itself, not by the concepts themselves, but because it helps you to understand what you should, how you should approach the investigation. And there are a lot of forensic valuable standards in the world, in different countries, under different scenarios, under different contexts, that prescribes a somehow similar but slightly different set of phases. What I'm going to present is what I think is useful in order to understand the subtleties, but you may find, as you can see, there will be five phases according to my presentation, to my, well, preference, but in some standards you may find four, or some of them with a different name, two of them merged inside a single phase, and so on. 

What I need from you is that you understand the concepts behind and how to proceed in a, well, in a proficient way, and, well, those will be useful also to understand different actions and details, some scenarios. So, again, those are a kind of concept frame in order to understand how to proceed. Yeah, I just mentioned some very famous investigation standards that prescribe, well, mobile forensics approaches, integration of different cybersecurity fields, like forensic techniques and incident response, that are very correlated among them. 

Very famous and historical standards, like the ACPO guidelines from the UK, that influenced a lot the investigation worldwide. All, well, the very, well, very, how to say, respected, but not fully practical ISO standard. Well, I'm not very, too much in favor of the ISO standard in general, because they are pretty well-structured, well-organized, but not always so practically useful, let's say. 

A lot of stuff that sometimes are not very, not fully relevant, let's say, in that way, to be polite. While I appreciate much more the NIST family, that is, again, a set of standards, I appreciate the fact that it's open source, so you can access it and not pay for it, like in the case of ISO. And this has the positive outcome that you can study it freely and also is in a context in which it's natural to debate on it and propose improvement. 

This is the, well, key point of open source stuff in general. So, my suggestion is to use open standards if you are not, well, mandated to do something different. But I mentioned them here because, just to remember that they may provide, like, for example, the NIST family provides a set of four phases instead of my five phases, for example, and will be an interesting exercise to understand why and the differences among them. 

But coming to my investigation process phases, I differentiate five of them. The first one is the identification, the initial, even the phase one, you may also say a kind of phase zero sometimes, in which I start to understand where I can find sources of information versus my suspect, organization, person, employee, whatever. This is phase one because when I start to investigate on a scene, on a context, on a scenario, I start to identify different devices, like, for example, laptops, hard drives. 

This is typical when I go like a forensic investigator the first time on a crime scene. But in some kind of investigation, I can start even before to find out information on the suspect. For example, if I started a forensic investigation and I somehow, under coverage, or it's not explicit that a forensic investigation is ongoing, let's say, then I may start to find out sources of information through what we can call OS intelligence, social media intelligence, and so on. 

Finding out details on the activities or on the, well, behavior of a possible suspect, again, both in terms of organization and in terms of person, of a single or a multitude of person, of people. And this may happen even before I explicitly go to the crime scene or after or when I start to investigate on the crime scene. I can look for possible sources of information even just after I started my investigation. 

But I mean, in the identification phase is I, if I did, still did not get physically or logically any source of information related to the very suspect, okay? And this may come with subtleties since while I try to identify sources of information, I should not modify or interfere or provide any kind of perturbation on the digital evidence by itself. And well, this is also why I said that this is a kind of, these five phases are a kind of mindset because in practice, sometimes, often practice, I need to run some risk in order to understand what is the, what are the sources of information that might be useful in my investigation. For example, asking, inputting some comments on a suspect device in order to find out the possible details, like for example, the systems, the hard drives related mounted on a laptop, okay? But this action might provoke a kind of modification in the system. 

So I must be very careful in doing that. But I need to understand the context, if it is inappropriate behavior doing this kind of perturbation or not. And inherently, while I'm doing this kind of operation, I'm somehow inside a, I've already started a collection phase from some perspective. 

That's why it's not always very clear the difference between those, all those five phases, okay? Coming back to the theoretical framework, in the second point, we have the collection. I identified, at least in theory, I identified all my sources of information, and then I start to get process to cut off the possibility of the suspect to continue to interact with them. And I put, I start my documentation, my chain of custody, in order to clearly describe what I'm doing. 

And I start to collect all of them in order to be able to analyze, examine all of them. This might involve most of the time, especially in historical, how to say, in a typical forensic investigation, a physical size of the stuff, the laptop, USB, pen drives, external, any kind of external device. Also, logical dump of a router log, for example, of the memory of some devices, particularly if I cannot, for some reason, physically acquire them, physically collect them. 

Like, for example, in case of cloud-based investigation, or if a device, for example, is a server inside an organization, and so just to investigate on a single user, I cannot seize the whole server and shut down the server service. Third phase is the acquisition. The acquisition is the process in which I, using my trusted instrument, my trusted tools inside my nice and very secure lab, I start to manipulate, to create copies, create artifacts that I can examine and analyze directly. 

The difference between the acquisition and the collection, also in the collection, I can get some logical artifacts, as I say, for example, a memory dump. The difference here is that during the acquisition phase, I'm using only my trusted and, well, bug-free by hypothesis, very well-known, checked, tested, clean from any possible perspective tools in order to perform this kind of manipulation. So this kind of manipulation should be error-free, at least in theory. 

Then I can have my set of digital artifacts. I always have the chain of custody in mind, and this implies that any operation, any manipulation, any examination that I perform on the evidence in the third phase is clearly described with the user tools, with the exact operation, the parameters of the command that I used, for example, the version of the system that I used, I don't know, Linux box, Windows box, the tools that I used inside the Linux box, used for doing the experiments, and so on. So I'm fully inside the evaluation phase in doing that, and the evaluation phase, as you may suspect, is the phase, the more creative, I would say, phase in which I try to understand the information inside my collected, my acquired pieces of evidence, and I try to, well, correlate different sources and result, in the end, with an explanation that explains the set of questions that I presented last time, why, where, how, and so on, in a technically sound way, with the possibility to repeat, to rerun as many times as you want the operations that I performed on the data. 

This, of course, implies that the original evidence is still intact and available, for example, I created copies. If I'm doing a destructive or altering examination, of course, I cannot do this on the original source of my evidence, but I created a sound bit-by-bit copy and experiment on that, so I can get back to the original evidence, create another copy, and perform other altering experiments if I want. Okay, at the end of the evaluation, of the examination phase, I have this, these answers, and, well, technically sound explanation, maybe, most of the time, I need to.

Someone wants to, with a different knowledge, maybe non-technical, maybe a judge, maybe the CEO of the organization, maybe a business manager, may want to understand what is the result of the investigation, so I need to translate it in a, and the context depending, and specifically crafted for the final target I want to present. Most of the time, this results in a number of different presentations, one for a business manager, one for a judge, one for the CEO, one for, well, even for the press to say outside, after an incident, what happened and why, okay? The record of one investigation will be presented almost every time in many different contexts, and forensic experts need to, it's good that a forensic expert understand and is able to think from different perspectives, what are the high-level abstract implications, what are the technical details, what is the impact of the findings from outside the organization, in order to correctly shape the point in which the presentation is split, and what are the topics that the presentation presents for the outside world, where with outside world, I'm thinking here outside the technical team that was deeply involved in the investigation. Okay, let's go into some more detail about the different phases. 

The first one is the identification, so recognition of the relevant sources, drives, memory, mobile devices, of course, network traffic, cloud storage. What is useful is to understand the volatility of the different kind of information sources, because what happens most of the time is that you need to prioritize your acquisition, okay? So, you will encounter many different categorization levels. One is around the volatility of the evidence sources. 

Another might be if related to suspect or possibly not. This kind of categorization has implication on what to collect first, okay? So, during the identification is good to know what is the state of the different, of the, what is the volatility state and the relationship that at this very moment that you may still hypothesize, not, you may not be in the position of having a final conclusion about the relationship between, for example, a removable media on a desk, even if the desk is the desk of the suspect and the suspect itself, okay? In the sense, good to start to have a kind of labels, mental labels for the different device that you may find in order to have a kind of percentage of how much is relevant that specific device before starting the acquisition. And, of course, this might be related with the previous action that you performed. 

For example, in a very, very silly example, if during your housing pre-investigation about one suspect, you find out that the suspect, well, ordered on an online shop a bunch of pen drives of a specific, of a specific label, then if you find something like that, and this is a not very widespread manufacturer, this is from a not very widespread manufacturer, then if you find a kind of pen drive on his or her desk, on the desk of the suspect, and the same closely on a different desk, maybe you can suspect, you can hypothesize that both of them are related to the suspect, okay? Very silly example, but this is something that might help you to understand what to see and what to get in the first place. So, good, if possible, to understand this kind of information before being on the scene, because the direct interaction with the scene might have some impact. So, whenever possible, try to acquire this kind of information in advance.

Another possible set of information that you may acquire beforehand are, well, for example, videos or photographs of the scene, for example, thanks to, well, surveillance webcam, or again, depending on the case, to some videos or photographs on the social media, etc., etc., and again, this might allow you to have a plan when you will be on the scene. Another important aspect is, for example, how the suspect is knowledgeable about computer science, about technology, because if the suspect is not a computer science expert that barely can understand how to use a normal Windows point-and-click interface, then very likely, you might have some interaction, some focused interaction on the system in order to acquire some more information. This should not be disrupted, for example, should not this kind of suspect might not have installed on the system some kind of system alteration, some kind of logic bombs that if you put a common delete some files and stuff like that.

Again, something that is useful is to understand in advance where the suspect normally act, normally work, normally do anything in order to understand where to go in order to acquire, to identify, and then collect information, sources of evidence. When we have, well, a set of, a good set of information, then we can start to identify physically instead. We can go to a scene and start the identification of the actual devices. 

I see a pen drive, okay, on a desk, on the suspect desk. Well, this might be a source of investigation. I know that




I have, well, I don't know, a piece of paper with the handwriting of the suspect on a laptop that is not on the desk. Okay, this may be a source of evidence. I can put this in the list of stuff that I want to collect.

Okay, I know that the guy worked on or went to work or whatever on a specific place of work and connected and sent an email from there. Well, I should go there and acquire some logical piece of data like the email server logs, if local and if possible. This is everything from a theoretical perspective.

And in practice, this might be much more complex, but I'm introducing theoretical approach here. And, well, I can, if I'm close to the crime scene, also I can start to interact with clean, or at least with what I believe be a clean actor that can interact with the scene. What I mean here, for example, I can interact if the suspect is still in acting, is still doing something.

I can interact with the router, with the organizational router, with the organizational gateway of the network and start to acquire network exchanges. Or even after the suspect is informed and I started to identify the laptop, the devices of the suspect, I can ask to get some clue. I can identify as possible sources of evidence the logs of the gateway.

In order to understand what can be a source of evidences, I can have a map, a graph, let's say, that connect the possible component devices, even people that interacted with the suspect, and that should be scrutinized in order to understand if some piece of data can come from them, devices, people, network, apparatus, and so on. Of course, again, the concept of volatility, I already mentioned it, and it's very important in many different, in many phases. If I identify some source that can be volatile, that are inherently fragile, meaning they can be modified without noticing in a very short period of time by actions, by internal behavior of the system, like, for example, hidden sectors or deleted files can be overwritten by the normal operation of moving one file, for example, from one folder to another.

And so, before doing any kind of action that might influence this aspect, I should collect it and, well, freeze it logically, meaning, for example, if I have a device switched off, I just acquire it without switching it on. If I have a switched-on device, maybe I should, well, this is pretty advanced as a technique, but it exists, I might get the memory of the running system just from the laptop without switching it off and put them on a cryogenic box in order to maintain it at, well, 200 and more degrees under zero, in order to preserve the charge of the transistor and being able, in my lab, to see the very content of the RAM. Again, I'm mentioning this, which is, of course, collection phase here in the identification, because a task of the identification is also prioritization of the collection.

And this is doable if you understand the inherent behavior, the internals of any identified evidence, digital evidence. Well, here's just a very simple scenario in order to have a kind of concrete image, a clear image, I hope, of what we can find in an identification phase. We have the scenario, we have a company, and the normal usage of employees, normal devices that employees interact to are USB drives, printers, personal devices that you can bring inside the organization.

And usage of external temporary storage, well, both internal and external, like temporary files, browser cache, and also cloud cache. And also they use cloud-based file sharing and also an improvised file sharing or information sharing storage. In this kind of scenario, what can be done in practice, if we start an investigation, if we suspect that an insider, so an employee, exfiltrated some sensitive document, is to start to collect publicly available information on the employee.

We can start with a list of suspects or with just the list of the employee and start to acquire the behavioral mouse of those employees. We can start with the scanning on social media, scanning on publicly available information, having, of course, a list of information from inside the organization, like corporate directories, internal or internal monitoring dashboard. We have tools, available tools that allow for this kind of investigation.

These kind of tools are not strictly related only on identification. We mention them here because they can be used as well during the initial phase in order to identify a list of, well, very likely suspects or likely suspects, at least. Spiderfoot, Martigo, Shodan are very good, very effective tools that allow to correlate and find out information on some specific, well, details or data like email address, what kind of address.

If, for example, an email address is involved in any breach, in that case, maybe we can arrive at the end of the investigation to the conclusion that a poor employee has been breached, the user, the account has been compromised, and then someone else infiltrated in the company and that person's name is or her name. Okay. With tools like Spiderfoot, Martigo, Shodan, we can find if an email has been involved in a breach.

Or, for example, we can identify what kind of IP or names are related to an IP or, on the contrary, what IPs are related with a DNS name and details on when has been registered. For example, a typical, pretty common at least, case of threats is to register a new domain in order to run an attack. And if we find that a domain has been registered yesterday or last week, for example, we can conclude it is just a kind of malicious registration used for malicious purpose if involved in, if we find in the log this kind of name.

Okay. Tools like Spiderfoot, Martigo, Shodan allow this and many more kind of investigation. The difference here is that, well, Shodan is very costly.

Martigo is pretty much costly. We have in Martigo a free version, pretty limited, that you can experiment to, while Spiderfoot likely is completely open source and is Python-based, uses the freely available information and then try to correlate them with no cost. But, unfortunately, Martigo and Shodan are typically more useful, more effective, find out more stuff than the simple Spiderfoot.

Okay, still in the scenario, we perform this kind of previous investigation. Then another step during the investigation phase is the understanding of the environment with no alteration. What can we use? We can put ourselves, in this case, the suspect is still not aware, likely, of our investigation.

At this very moment, we should not still use any direct contact with him or her and with the devices involved in the normal usage of the normal behavior of the suspect. So, for example, we can start some kind of covert investigation. We can connect with another node in order to understand the network behavior.

We can start a network scan of different nodes. We can, depending, possibly, sniff on the network traffic with a tool like Wireshark. We can do noticed photos of the suspect's desks or videos.

Here, not altering ephemeral data is the normal behavior, if you want, of the suspect. We should not alter even the normal behavior if we want to acquire information on the behavior itself. If possible, to connect with a different client, we can try to see information.

If, for example, some devices are shared between multiple users, for example, a company desktop that is used by many users with many different accounts, we can create an account on that in order to investigate on this usage. Or we can connect if our managed devices, which is pretty typical in many organizations, we can connect as a system administrator, for example, claiming just normal maintenance. And acquire information on the network usage, on the open or closed files, on the mounted devices, and so on.

In order to acquire information, like using, under Windows, tools like SysInternalSuite, or command line tools like LSOF, Netstat, in Unix-derived operating systems. Here, just a set of possible example commands that you run. Do you know this kind of commands? It's pretty common knowledge here, right? For some of you, I have some.

Yes. Okay. For many of you.

Okay, good. Like, for example, in order our possibilities, like, well, see what is connected on a USB drive. I can run it on a terminal very quickly on my terminal, just to run it, because I think it's more nice to see.

For example, the list of USB connected devices at the moment, not very much, as you might expect. I have only, you might find, basically, as relevant, my Logitech mouse connected to the USB port. Something, and then a lot of nice add that allow to connect to many USB-based devices.

With this command, we might find out some, I think that on my system, I can result in not very useful findings here. What I said, yeah, just that, you know, there is insensitivity. But, in principle, here we might find some related to the usage of USB pen drive here, mounting, unmounting, access inside the terminal messages here.

Okay, nice. This means probably I unplugged something wrongly, which might be nice if I find out that if I have errors on my pen drive key, I might suspect something. Or, well, this is about USB.

Instead, we might find information on the devices inside the system. I have a lot of devices here, where different devices are mounted, related to, well, DF, not listed here. These are just possible set of command that help us to investigate the content of a system.

This is not exhaustive at all. It's just to give you some examples of what you may use, or what is mounted. Yes, what is mounted, and then I use a regular expression.

So, say to me exactly what start with dev in mount output, and not so much at the moment. While, from the perspective of logical file systems, I have a lot. But, well, now I'm interested in, for example, if I would be interested in seeing the physical device, I would start with more likely with dev.

And after that, I need to understand what is inside the output that I can see. And, of course, those are for Unix-based. I think you have many of them, not exactly all of them, also in Mac OS, which I'm not very, well, expert on.

And you have the same, more or less, same type of command in Windows using your PowerShell. This is to understand what is connected to a device. And this, can you see this system examples, coupled with the network examples, like, well, map and VIP, whatever.

And map, of course, is the most famous one. Collection, okay. As at the end of this phase, also, if we can maybe interact with the system, but with the less possible extent, well, again, I stress, I should use this kind of command with a good knowledge of the context.

And if I, well, cannot do anything better, for example, for sure, if I have a system and I'm during the C of the system, and I have, as I said, switched off device, for sure, I should not switch it on and start to use this command in order to understand if something was connected one hour ago. Okay. In that case, I save it, I leave it switched off.

I probably connect everything I can to a trusted system that should not modify the content of the different devices. For example, I can connect, well, I can unplug the storage and plug it on an external device. Even before I plug it to an external device that allow for a bit by bit copy of the content of the storage before putting it in a live system.

Why? Because any action can alter metadata details of the device. So I run these commands just if, for example, I'm in specific context that allow that. The scenario here, I'm investigating under coverage.

And so I can run those comments during the normal activity of the system. So I can somehow get some snapshot from time to time in order to collect the evidences. And I should not allow, well, drag the suspect to switch off the device or modify the behavior.

So, again, if the context allow that, if the suspect is not some very, some kind of nice hacker or system experts that might find out that an administrator connected to the device and, well, activated a kind of job that any hour check what kind of USB drives are connected or perform some kind of strange investigation, steal some logs and send it to another point, for example. If the suspect is a security aware guy, is a system aware guy, this kind of behavior might alter, might provoke countermeasure from them. And in that case, again, even if the system is running, I should not run obviously investigative tasks.

OK, again, the key point here is context understanding. And I like to stress it a lot. And I'll do that again and again.

OK, at the end of the identification, then we have a list of sources, a list of something that they should acquire in order to examine it in details, correlate them and extract valuable information. We are in the collection phase in which the evidences identified should be physically or logically acquired. The key point is data loss.

Both of them, data loss might happen in a willingly or unwillingly way. For example, if I access the files on a device, I'm altering a lot of metadata, lost access time, if I'm moving folders, files and so on. For example, as a, well, naive investigator, I start to copy.

This is an absolute hypothesis, but I want to acquire information on the content of a laptop of a suspect. And then, OK, I can start to cut and paste these files on my USB drive. This would alter all the metadata of all the files that I'm acquiring.

For example, the creation time on the USB drive is not the original one. And so I destroyed, if I use the content of my pen drive for the examination, I destroyed a lot of information of sources. Of course, this is a extreme example of what to, what kind of behavior to avoid from an investigator perspective.

This is obvious, I guess, but in many, many cases is much more subtle. The actions involved here are the ones that allow, that avoid, let's say, that avoid the suspect or any other to damage my data. Accidentally or by, by willing action.

And this involves basically the isolation of my devices. Isolation that can be physical. OK, the guy can no longer physically touch a device.

Fine, that's all.




But it's not the only problem here. Logically, from a computer science perspective, this implies that the device is no longer reachable by data, by any data flow from now on. That may involve, for example, modification of firewall rules, because remember, I should not touch, why I should not modify directly the device, because in many, sometimes I can do that if I know that this is not an altering action in respect of what I want to explore later. 

But sometimes I cannot, because I should leave the device untouched. And then I should modify the rules to access the device from the network perspective, wired or also wireless network perspective, both in ingress and in egress. I should avoid information that goes from the device to outside, because it can be a kind of, I don't know, alarm message that modify other devices inside a malicious network, but also ingress, for example, an auto-destruction signal that start the encryption or secure delete of the content, maybe selective secure delete of the content of the device. 

And then I should modify network topologies, firewall rules, behavior of the gateways, and maybe security groups, if depending on what is important to understand is the previous, and this should be an outcome of the identification phase whenever possible, the contact point that those devices, this is part of the graph that we developed during investigation, all the contact points that my device, that my suspect, the devices of the suspect, had with the outside world, outside meaning out from the set of the devices under investigation. And I should be able to cut all the logical connection before, at the beginning, let's say, of the collection phase in order to avoid any further communication that might be very dangerous. Also, I should pay attention to the possible sources of damage of the content of my evidences. 

This may imply, for example, avoid magnetic alteration for magnetical-based devices like old hard drives that under strong magnetic fields might be partially erased or damaged. But this might involve also, for some fragile devices, more careful behavior, like, for example, what I already mentioned for the volatile memory, for the central memory, the RAM. I, for example, need to put it inside a cryogenic box in order to prevent the modification of the content of the transistor's cell, in order to allow the charge of the different cell memory to maintain the status for minutes, hours, until I'm able to be inside the lab and extract the logical content of the physical RAM. 

So, I need an approach different for the different kind of devices with those rules in mind. I need to isolate them from any source, any possible source of damage, physical, logical, environmental. And, again, also this is a point that I stress a lot, the creation of a record of the action performed. 

For example, okay, I acquired the RAM, I acquired a USB pen drive, I put it on the bag number one, I put a label on my bag number one in order to know and Andrea Zeni did that at five o'clock, seven minutes after five o'clock, in a very fine-grained manner. Or, well, I put the RAM inside the cryogenic box, again, at what hour, and then the cryogenic box was delivered at the lab after two hours and twenty-seven minutes, and so on. And it was delivered to the technician, I don't know, Cataldo Basile, inside the lab at seven o'clock, and so on. 

A very detailed record of what are the actions, who performed the action, what kind of action has been performed, and also details on the very specific devices that I interacted with. Many times, I can find during an investigation, many laptops, many USB pen drives, I have many dumps of the records of a gateway, of a router, and so on. So, for each of them, I should note details that allow the identification, the clear identification of them inside the original context.

For example, the date and time of a dump, the device model number, serial number, and so on, of a device, in order to allow a perfect identification of them during the examination phase. Because, again, a source of error in this case, and well, a very common source of error, in fact, is that, not very much more nowadays, but at the beginning of the digital forensic science, of the digital forensic investigation, this kind of mistakes were very common. I acquired a lot, I collected a lot of devices, but I was not very accurate in recording the device number, the serial number of them, when I, well, maybe I have two smartphones of the same manufacturer, same model, and I forgot to identify explicitly the difference between the two. 

So, during the examination, I no longer know what data comes from the first, what data comes from the second, and this is a very common source of inadmissibility, not admissibility, in a CURT trial. This was the typical behaviour of attorney to challenge this kind of approach at the beginning, due to the inexperience of the forensic investigator of the time. And, yeah, of course, whenever possible, I should have, and forensic experts have, usually, a bag with devices that allow, that avoid the alteration, like the right block, physical right blocks, like the one I presented you in the picture.

Physical devices, I have my suitcase with devices inside, I connect, I have, I might have a kind of hard drive adapter, I plug off the storage from the device, put inside this, and then I start to copy to another hard drive, bit by bit, my physical copy, I create an image of the drive, and then I will start the examination on that. So, the right blocker is something that is normally part of the digital forensics investigator. And, what I didn't mention, is another reason for avoiding the connection. 

So, sometimes, I also may want to use a jammer to avoid immediately kind of wireless or mobile network-based connection, is, for example, to avoid the run of a very, nowadays, common functionality, which is remote wiping, in which, by a command, I can remotely destroy completely the content of, for example, a mobile system. So, the functionality that, nowadays, a computer, a digital forensic investigator, a digital forensics expert has to face, too, are subtle and might allow for the destruction of an evidence in a matter of minutes, if not seconds. And that's why the collection phase is much more subtle than what someone might expect, and is a key moment in which the evidence can be securely stored from one end or completely destroyed from the other.

Questions? Okay. For today, we can conclude with this.

