I do not have at the moment the very number of the students that are going to do the homework, so I'm not sure if there is still room, but for sure send me an email not later than, well, I would say today or these very days because we are almost full, okay, so kind of final call for for doing an homework in case you are interested in this nice stuff. Well, if you are going to send me an email and you have a kind of idea or preference in order to do something feel free, well, in fact you are encouraged to also send me a topic that you are willing to explore. A specific topic is the best, but also a kind of large topic that we can shape more in detail after some kind of interaction. So, also express your preference or your idea even better if you want to do a normal. This is valid also to the student that sent me yesterday an email and just ask for a list of homework that I have some idea, but what I strongly believe is that if you are passionate about something that you want to dig into, the result will be much nicer, much improved, of good quality, I would say, than if I assign you just a topic. This is my strong belief in, well, in life, I would say. This can allow to fill very huge gaps in terms of knowledge if you are passionate about something. So, in general, I try to assign thesis and, of course, homework, of course, that are in the same field that I'm researching, that I myself interested in too. But in this, which is a pretty large spectrum of things, I think that something really, well, intriguing from the perspective of the student allowed to achieve a very good result in the end, even if, at the starting point, the knowledge on that specific topic was not so, let's say, extensive.

Okay, that's my posture about the criteria on assignment of this staff. So, just also for the yesterday student, the student that yesterday sent me an email asking for a list, please feel free to send another email with some more detailed proposal, with some proposal at all, or with some more detail in case you already have. In any case, the set of students that yesterday sent me an email still is in the list of the student that can do an homework. So, that's also the expression of interest of yesterday is enough to be in the list. And then we might, well, dig into possible topics and more details. This is just a kind of overall for everyone remark. And another logistical remark, let's say, is that we are, well, two remarks, two things in one. We are going to have our first laboratory on next Wednesday, but which is not exactly the next Wednesday. It is the next Wednesday in which we will have lesson, in my opinion, unless, well, we will have a brief discussion. Next Wednesday, there will be Professor Vacciago instead, because he's going to miss some lessons, some lectures in a row. So, to avoid too, well, a lot, a very huge amount of time without him, since next Friday, there is the open day event, so you will not have lesson on Friday. Then it's vacation, so you will not have on Friday, on Friday, on any days, by the way, but also on Friday, lesson. And then Professor Vacciago in, again, the next Friday, will not be here due to personal reasons. So, you will miss three lectures consecutively, and this is not very nice. So, in order to avoid this, this, well, this harmful event, you will have Professor Vacciago next Wednesday. So, I will have a lesson on the Friday next to the Easter vacation. In that occasion, I'm, well, we may have our first lab, or instead on the Wednesday in April, the first Wednesday in which we will have a lesson with me in April. My question here is if you prefer to have the lab if there is any problem or preference in having it on Friday or on Wednesday. And so, this is a question for you, since I expect physical presence in doing that. Well, let me clarify. I need, we may arrange, I want physical, well, we will split in groups that could be the member, the members of the group you can choose by yourself. We may have groups from four to six, in general, people.

Inside this group that for the best part should be physically present, you may have remote students that connect with you and walk with you in your group, even from remote, given the fact that the majority of the member of a group should be physically present. Okay? So, this is the rule. Given this rule, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm asking you if you prefer a bit for, for the first lab on Wednesday or on Friday, Friday that I think will be the 10th of April, of April, if I'm not wrong. Yes, it is. So, if let's just, if someone want to state something, or we may have a vote by raising your hand on the preference.

If there are remarks, if not, what do you prefer? Wednesday, that's fine. We will have it on Wednesday. Do you, all the audience agree with that? Okay, fine. For me, it's fine. Okay. Okay. Okay. Settle it. Okay. So, solve this kind of logistical problem. So, again, next Wednesday, instead, there will be Professor Vaciago that will have a lesson here, okay, for the three hours of next Wednesday. So, getting back to our technical stuff here. Questions about what we discussed yesterday, otherwise we can continue on our topic. That is, just to remind, we went through challenges, desirable requirements, to problems, the last week, that you may encounter in a scenario that you, kind of stuff that you might suffer due to malicious or adversarial will and behavior in general, that advocate the fact to have your trust set up even portable if you are going to a crack scene in order to acquire evidences, or even more important and well spread in your investigation lab, in your forensically sound lab, that should have a lot of, that should accomplish a nice number of different properties, from properties of the physical setup, in order to guarantee physical security, avoid unauthorized presence of adversarial people, avoid devastating damages due to natural events, and in general, or even more subtle, avoid the infection, of the infections from, we need to help and get to keep crosses, along the way across the WHO's from multifactorial guardrails in the perimeter of our buildings, of our rooms, to the usage of Faraday page in order to avoid signals into our buildings from logical separation, air gaps from the outside world and even between different rooms, different units of my investigation, of my team inside the lab. And of course we should follow well-known security principles like least privilege, need to know, defense in depth, providing multiple layers of multiple levels of defense. And what this means in practice can be very different from metal structures that avoid signals into a specific room, specific to painting, well, anti-signal kind of paintings that avoid the transmission of the signal through a wall, to multi-factor authentication that implies something that you possess and something that you know and something that you have from your iris scan to your digital fingerprint etc etc etc.

We may have discussed a lot of interesting stuff and now we are going to continue with this list and with the discussion that we would have. Well, what I would like to hear from you and that sometimes I heard from you, which is from your students, I mean, which is very nice, is some statements or thoughts about how I can implement, or my experience is in this case. I had students that are somehow experts that have experience in the cybersecurity field and so it's interesting to share their experience in this audience, in this context, in order to enrich everyone of us in this place in this place by, well, for example, proposing, providing a different kind of arguments, but also to update our knowledge with fresh news, with different points of views, which is, well, very nice.

What I really appreciate in my courses, so I can get enriched as well, while I'm sharing my knowledge with the students, which is nice, so both of us can evolve in some sense, and so I encourage this kind of behaviour, which is, again, very nice. So, getting back to our set of concepts, if I'm not wrong, we were here and, yeah, we mentioned the last, well, least privileged access control with all those nice concepts related to role-based authentication or attribute-based. And, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, I think that you will know that organize an access control around just specific user entities and not around attributes.

For example, for example, for example, for example, for example, or specific roles, I'm the administrator, just setting up access privileges on the base of the people and instead of what that person should do or can do or have to do or the role that is, is embalming in a specific moment is a recipe for failure and possible errors because the management of the access privileges along the whole life of the interaction of an entity, a person, but also an automatic agent, is complex to trace and to get update according to the change of duties and roles inside an organization.

So, having an access control organized around the role and the capability of the user is better by far in order to reduce the amount of errors that can be critical and that were critical in many historical attacks. So, that was the last thing that we were saying yesterday. Continuing on the list and under the data protection umbrella for our NICE Lab, of course, we should consider management perspective, many strategical possible cause of action. What I mean here is we should be capable to recover from an incident because many times as well, this is nowadays a pretty common experience being under attacks from the outside world.

Of course, if you ever had a publicly available server on the internet, you may see that after a couple of minutes, if you check on the logs of your server, you can start to see some kind of recognizance or even brute force or dictionary attacks attacks to your access to your access to your access to your open ports. This is a pretty normal experience, this happening usually on average in a couple of minutes. So, we are always under attacks if we expose ourselves to the outside world, and this is even much more true for a lab that is involved in critical operations, as may be a forensic lab.

Of course, we already put in place some countermeasures like a gap separation, physical separation, logical separation, but still there are attacks that might happen, for example, to the power lab that unfortunately it's very hard to avoid. So, we should have the possibility to continue our operation, even in case of at least short, or even better, mid-term attacks, mid-term power shortage. This means, for example, a proper availability of UPS devices, uninterruptible power supplies. And, of course, in a forensic lab, we should have high-quality devices, but still we may experience, well, physical damage and logical problems.

And, in any case, we should consider the possibility of being attacked and approach the problem, approach our defense setup, considering defense-in-depth principle. So, we should have our backup systems that are ready, that are frequent, and that are organized in order to avoid that an attack to the central system, to our central device, our central device would result in a corruption, even of our backup. That, for example, that, for example, may mean, and this may be complex, that a copy of our backup should be in a different location. This is a common concept in critical system. I mentioned that one copy might be in a different location, because I should probably have another copy of the backup inside the premise, inside the same premise.

Why? Because, most of the time, I have also, back in time, strict requirements, meaning that, in case of a loss of operational capability, I should be able to restore as soon as possible, sometimes in a matter of a few minutes. So, it is a requirement of having a backup system that is available in case of a problem inside the very same premise of my central system. But should not be the only one, but should not be the only one, because in case of a critical, maybe physical, destruction of some device inside the premise, I would not loss all my backups. And so, I need this kind of concept in the strategic planning of my lab.

Well, in the field of data protection, reaction in the field, we are in this slide, essentially in the field of capability to understand and to react what might get wrong. And so, the logging capability should be set in a strategically wise way. That means that all the key devices should be under a strict capability to monitor and to reconstruct. Of course, this is our job, of course, this is our job, so we should be able to do that also for things that happen to our lab. So, we should be able to monitor in details our key components from application perspective like, well, databases, workstation, to operating system level understanding.

Meaning, the normal, the possibility to identify that the set of action, of interaction with the operating system, falls under a normal pattern of usage. We may have different levels of alarm, if a pattern is significantly different. We may have our intrusion detection system that raise an alarm, but even in case the attack was subtle enough to fool our intrusion detection, So, after a careful examination, after a careful examination, the reconstruction of the timeline, the capability to correlate at the human sophistication level, the different sources of information, we should be able to identify that something went wrong after an attack to our lab.

And this is one point. Another point is, even in case of normal operation, in case a consistent, clever, strong counterpart would question about our investigation, it is good to be able to reconstruct in details what we have done, how we have managed our evidence under a process in order to have sound proof, hard proof that nothing wrong has been done in our lab, and resist to the, let me say, attacks from the counterpart in a court of justice, in case of very sensitive forensic investigation.

And this implies, as I said, application level, operating system level, network level, logs, capability to check that any network apparatus in our lab works as expected, and then no external attacker might infiltrate in our lab. I infiltrate in our device, and then compromise our device from a logical perspective. So if we have a follow, without bags, with proper configuration, with the proof that was always on, then we may conclude that no one has been able to trespass it during our investigation, which is something that a counterpart might question, to have the proof that everything went fine during the investigation.

And so we should be able to check the normal operation, and also the spatial operation when I need to install a different component, a different apparatus, a different DNS, a different name server, whatever influence the operation inside a network. And of course, since I need to reconstruct the action, any actions from also the user, who are the users in this case, forensic investigator, security administrator, personnel in charge of the management of the device, etc., etc. In particular, when we should log those actions in normal, during normal operation, and during particular one like update, install, or modification of algorithm that, as I already said, update of application, operating system, etc.

So, very, very important. And this is correlated with this other point, the readiness of the auditing of my system, of my lab, and of my investigation, in order to be capable. Of course, these two aspects should be designed in a kind of strict relationship. Because I need to understand from a design perspective, from a theoretical perspective, what I would like to reconstruct in case of problem. And this is the capability to audit a system, in general.

But more specifically, if I want to understand the course of action of a specific user, of a specific autonomous agent, of a specific application, I need to set up my monitoring capability, the logs that I'm going to set, that I'm going to set. That I'm going to load, literally, in order to be able to understand the behavior of this component. For example, we have very simple examples here. To understand the course of action, to audit the action of a user, we need, for example, to understand login, logout times, the history of executed commands, the files that the user accessed.

If you remember, if you remember, for example, thanks to this kind of exploration we identified in the John case, the access to the treatment project, and being able to identify John as the guilty of the sensitive exfiltration. And this kind of, and all the related kind of information, like configuration changes operated by the user, that might be a possible clue of a crime, depending, or of an error, depending on the context. And instead, from an application-specific perspective, we need to, nowadays, this is true and is getting more and more frequent, the need of identifying, of audit, what an autonomous agent, well, for example, an artificial intelligent agent, an artificial intelligent agent, that is capable to perform complex, from simple to complex task, we need the, and this is an open issue, right now.

So, well, well, if someone want to advise for an homework that is interesting, to see how to investigate, since this is a pretty narrow field, how to conduct a forensic investigation, when intelligent agent, like the cloud co-worker, the cloud co-worker, or similar staff, or in general large language model, with a huge amount of freedom, are involved in order to understand how we can arrange an investigation in this novel scenario. So, this is, this is, this might be an interesting, if someone is interested in doing something like, like that. In general, we have this issue, which is, understand what a, what an application, what a program, done.

And this might involve, and this might involve, for example, well, a simple example, database, audit logs, you know, to understand queries. Well, this is, well, this is more in the field of having an application, we have to, to build up on this very specific. We need the application-specific program, specific logs that should be composed in order to understand an higher level behavior that nowadays might be put in place by intelligent agents. And so, most, a possible approach is starting from specific application logs that should be correlated in an intelligent and effective way.

Otherwise, we may have a lot of, maybe even too much information, and we may be in, in a, well, good, in a bad, sorry, situation to find out relevant ones. This is an interesting scenario, as I, as I said. And, well, if we know what we want to be able to trace, and what we, for how much time we want to be able, given, for example, internal policy, internal organizational policies, or law, specific laws in the country that my lab operates, sometimes need to respect, for example, to maintain data for a fixed amount of time, depending on the time of justice, for example, or, or, or, or applicable laws, like, I can mention easily, the GDPR, for example, here.

According to that, I should plan what kind of storage use to maintain it. In, in a digital forensic investigation, the warm tools are pretty common and nicely accepted in a court of justice, because they guarantee that I write something and then I did not, I did not modify it, because I cannot, from a practical, I cannot, from a real perspective, change it. This is an inherent characteristic of the warm device, and in many legally restricted contexts, they are used for, for maintaining operation.

Of course, they are very useful, also from a technical perspective, in order to resist from an attack that can try to erase my logs, my information, because, since they are writable, because since they are writable just one time, even the most powerful attack, even myself, cannot delay, delete it, even if willing to do that. Okay, so, they are very nice, very nice tools, that physically can protect our, our information. Of course, we should, well, and this is one stuff, we can mention again, the, our, in the attempt to achieve an immutable storage, from a physical warm one's perspective. Or, from a logical perspective, or, from a logical perspective, we may well mention the, the etching and digital signature counter, well, tool, that allow us to maintain and to check if anything altered our evidence.

And in general. And in general, okay, we have that, but of course we can, we should be able to use and protect this kind of evidence in our process of, of manipulation, let's say, of management, of usage. And so, for example, we should have a properly set policy, set of policies that allow restriction, based on sound security principles, like the separation of duty. Which, as I think you will know, implies that I can access to resources that, to only the resources that are related to my job.

So, there no, there no exists something like a super user that can do everything, that can do anything, he or she wants. But, only users, even with a powerful privilege, that are restricted to the specific things that they have to do. For example, there will be an administrator, a system administrator that can change privileges. But, for example, cannot change, may be arranged in order to avoid the impossibility to access, for example. It's nice to have a system administrator that can change privileges to other users, but cannot access to other functionalities. For example, to access the data in a database.

Of course, of course, of course, also this can be trespass, can be, can be subject, or can be fought after an attack. But, of course, there is the need of a larger base of collusion between different users. So, our purpose is not to achieve a 100% secure system, which is a utopical setup that in reality cannot exist for any usable system, but instead provide a reasonable amount of difficulties to achieve an attack related to the value of our system.

So, if our system is of high value, we should have a nice set of a large number of countermeasures in place. Okay, this is just to recall our pragmatic point of view in setting up a lab. Other points that we should consider in setting up our lab are the hardware requirements. Well, this is, I already said that, I mentioned it again, of course, a question, a point in terms of efficiency, but also a point in terms of effectiveness. I need high performance in order to speed up my process.

I need, well, high performance computing devices. I need high performance central memory. I need high performance storage, hard drives in my system, and so I can speed up my analysis, my acquisition, any phase of a digital investigation. But, since in many contexts, in particular, in the initial investigation phases, the time constraints might be significant, might be very important, but then performing actions, performing analysis that, for example, well, I presented the phases of a forensic investigation as a kind of rainfall of different phases, a kind of waterfall of a sequence of action.

In practice, we may have a kind of iterative scenario in which I acquire, identify some source of evidence, I acquire them, I collect and acquire them, I start to examine them, and after this first examination, I'm able, I can identify other sources of evidence. This is, well, a far more common scenario than just a full identification, concluded, then full collection, then full acquisition, and full analysis, and final presentation, all in a separate point, in a separate time interval. This is often not the case. This is often not the case. So, if I'm, I have, I'm performing hardware, then I can start quite early my analysis, and then I can identify, I can, well, hypothesize other sources of evidence, I can start soon in acquiring, in collecting and acquire them.

And then, soon means, remember, soon means, remember, we have order of volatility, we have some, some evidences that are short-lived ones, and then if I start to collect them early in, in, in terms of my overall investigation, then is much higher the possibility So, the possibility that I can find them still untouchable, still valid for my analysis. So, the possibility to have highly performing hardware is something that can affect also the very results, not only the time, but also the conclusions of an investigation. So, it's important to have that.

And, well, I need, of course, another important point is what I, in a forensic scenario, want to achieve, absolutely, is the... the, the, is to avoid the introduction of, of errors in, in the evidence, during the manipulation, during the management of, of evidences. So, the, the, this storage that achieves a forensically, uh, grade of, of, uh, quality is, uh, is the, is the required, and well, unfortunately, this might be a huge source of, of cost. Unfortunately, this might be a huge source of cost, because we need larger storage, because we need large acquisition of information from different devices, in order of, pretty typical nowadays, in order of hundreds or thousands of terabytes.

And even worse, we need to be sure that no errors have been introduced, so it's pretty common to organize them in RAID hard drives, both in terms of redundancy, in order to have multiple copies, for example, for backup, but also in order to speed up our capability to acquire and to analyze data on the hard drive. And this increase doubles or multiplies, in general, the cost of our storage devices. And, well, and of course, related to storage, I can mention again, here, I mention again, the WOM, because they are quite spread, and here I mention the fact that, in many cases, the possibility to use a warm storage is required, or it is at least very appreciated from a judge, let's say, inside a card of justice, from a technical perspective.

And so, in a forensic lab, even a portable one that I use to reach the crime scene, or the inside, my very secure premise is something that is good to have at hand. And, well, okay, we have Faraday bags mentioned in order, well, this is typical, not that, well, this might be good in order to move my evidence from one lab to another, from one room to another, if I need to go outside, if I need to go outside, and so I can be subject to attacks. I should put my device inside this nice bag, which is an isolated envelope, to avoid the possibility to send signals to a device, but, and this might be important inside my lab, but this is much more important, in general, when I go to a crime scene in order to isolate as soon as possible, if I do not have to interact again with the device, for other investigative sound reasons, in order to avoid, and this is a very typical case nowadays, that some malicious actor send a wipe from remote to the device, or send, in any case, signals, or continue to communicate with the device, for example, in case the device is infected, and this transferring relevant information to a command and control, to, is under the exfiltration of relevant information to a command and control, it's good to immediately physically isolate this device, and so far the bags are important, an important tool in a portable forensic furniture of a forensic investigator.

Another, might be slightly more surprising, is the capability to provision of hardware accelerator for specific tasks that might be sometimes on the crime scene. We said that the best option is try to use the devices present in the crime scene, and instead try to freeze the status, the state of the different devices, and then continue to analyze it inside the lab. But sometimes this is not the best cause of action that we may have, because we might compromise some parameters, some variables, some part of the status of a running device on a crime scene.

So, sometimes we may have the need to interact with a system, in a typical case, we may try to crack a password of a live system in order to get into the system, for example, to acquire the cryptographic key for the storage. Sometimes this might be the best cause of action. And so, having some specific hardware-based tool that can be order of magnitude more efficient than a general-purpose device, like my laptop with some software on that, well, is something that might be, as you can imagine, very useful. Of course, it's good to have hardware accelerator also inside my lab, like, for example, for, well, password cracking is a nice activity, so I can perform it on the crime scene or also in the lab, depending on this scenario, so it's good to have this kind of device.

But more typical inside the lab is having some data carving. What is data carving? Data carving is a central concept in digital investigation, which is the attempt to extract from an amorphous amount of data, mountains of bits, the information suitable to my investigation. And so, like carving from the stone, a shape that I can recognize. This is the origin of data carving. Out of this nice and poetic metaphor, it means look inside, for example, an hard drive, for example, a dump of a central memory, in order to find out specific value that I'm interested in too.

From a central memory, for example, I can be willing to extract the keys for disk encryption. From an hard drive, I may be willing to extract the deleted files, but still there inside the storage, still with some degree of the original information in the storage. even if apparently the file and then the information carried by the file has been deleted. This is a central historical process of digital forensics. And, well, in general, any hardware acceleration for a time-consuming specific task is something that would be very nice.

Nowadays, nowadays, it's good to have and to experiment with local large language models, local artificial intelligence that we may use to perform data analysis with the effectiveness of the modern large language models, but without relying on something that we cannot do inside our investigation, because we have sensitive data, without relying on online, on third-party models. because in doing that, we would share restricted information, that is something that, inside an investigation, we cannot do by law.

So, okay, so it's very good to have local language models that we can instruct and that we can use only locally, only inside our forensic lab. But in order to be effective in this kind of tool, we need a lot of GPUs, or GPUs, if you want. But the normal CPUs are not so effective in performing this kind of computation. Okay, so specific hardware, nowadays, also for this task among the historical one, is very welcome. About all the requirements, yeah, we are here in more old-fashioned one. We have network-relevant hardware, meaning something that allows us to tap, to intercept and to acquire reliably network information, even in an external context.

Again, this is the network forensic hardware, is usually more important in an investigation on a crime scene, or even before, when we are investigating undercover, and still, in a, let's say, in a, let's say, stealthy way, our target still does not know to be under investigation, or do not suspect that we are using this kind of advanced tools in order to find information on it. On the target organization, or on the target person. And, well, for example, we need, in this field, packet capture appliances, in order to be able to get any kind of network traffic, basically.

But, with the capability to acquire reliably, this kind of traffic, that might mean full packet capture at a high speed, that might be at 10, 100, even more gigabit per second. And this is, again, another interesting source of cost in a real scenario. Well, at high speed, but also with almost a zero error introduced in that. This means forensic grade here. This kind of tools, since we are acquiring information for analysis, also try to solve another problem. If we listen to a network for days, for example, maybe for weeks, we will, on a network that is capable to send hundreds of gigabytes in a few seconds, after some weeks of sniffing, would result in an unmanageable amount of data, or at least a huge amount of data that would require a huge amount of time in order to be analyzed.

And then, this kind of tools for being used inside a forensic investigation, also provide some capabilities that are very appreciated in order to re-query, to query, to investigate again the traffic that you capture. In other words, there are two, meaning indexing and adding metadata in order to identify this, to have information that can help our subsequent analysis of the packet, in particular, indexing, but also metadata like the timestamp of the capture, for example. And, well, this is impaired, often with this kind of appliances, we may have dedicated network tabs that allow to physically connect to a network, to a branch of a network, literally, at physical level, that usually do not introduce any noticeable alteration on the traffic.

In principle, they are essentially, from a network perspective, a hub that just gets traffic and sends it out to another port, maybe with some modifications. Maybe with some modifications on the, well, strength of the signal. But if you want, you can have, you can use the smart ones. If you want, if you want to maintain your sturdy state, you can instruct these devices to emit the signal outside at the same level of the input signal in order to maintain a kind of stealthness during your investigation. And, well, this just works like a physical device that can send data on more different ports in output.

So, you can have, you can send on the original branch of the network, the signal, but also to another one in order to acquire, in a physical sound, in a physically reliable way, your information. And, again, this is very appreciated from a legal perspective, because you have a strong, you might rely on a strong assumption of no packet loss. Because they are, they are very low error, they maintain a very low error rate in manipulating data on a network. So, very appreciated on a network. And, well, again, from virtualization is a nice concept, we should have the hardware required to achieve the possibility to run experiments in an isolated sandbox.

And this may imply a lot of physical boxes with virtualizing system. Depending on the kind of analysis, we may want full virtualization, a la VirtualBox or VMware, classic one. Or, if we need some light, some boxing, light virtualization, but good performance, even lightweight. Even if, well, this might depend even on the specific hardware that we have. So, in principle, in this kind of scenario, the best is to have full virtualization. So, we have a complete sandbox that, apart from some pretty rare bugs discovered historically that are very unlikely, we have a fully isolated system.

So, it's good for our analysis. But, if, since this is very costly, very expensive, because we may have multiple running instances at the same time, tens, hundreds of components, of software components that we want to analyze, this would require a huge amount of resources. And then, and also to set up, the time to set up is easy of use, we may have lightweight virtualization, but we need to know, in this case, exactly what we are going to do. For example, for a noun malware, this is not a recommended behavior, because the malware might infect your system, that a lightweight sandbox is not capable to prevent.

And, yes, the virtualization is something, the possibility to use a virtualized box is something very relevant, in particular for analysis of unknown application. So, that might result in infected one, and then, this is suitable for malware analysis. Okay, so, we need also this kind of equipment in our lab. And, well, last point, last point in this slide, that might appear pretty obvious, even silly, if you want. But, this is something that practically might sometimes result in an issue, because it is often overlooked, having the appropriate amount of adapter, of cable, of even manuals for obsolete components that maybe you are not familiar with.

It is something that can slow down a lot your investigation, and then may drive to missing the useful timeframe in order to acquire a volatile component. If, if I am trying, for example, if I am trying, for example, to get the memory, the content of the central memory, I need to extract the RAM bank from the device and put it on my system in order to get the content, and I realize that I do not take the adapter for that maybe old-fashioned RAM So, this is something that compromises the acquisition of the RAM, and this, in practice, might happen.

For network adapter, for network adapter, for network adapter, for any kind of plug, for example, nowadays, the old mini USB port is not so common. So, for devices that connect through that port, this might be difficult, you should remember to have an adapter for that, and not only your USB-C adapter, for example, that are nowadays by spread. So, this is a practical point, but not very complex from a theoretical perspective, but in practice, this might change your investigation. Okay, we may have one question, remarks, something that you want to share according to what we discussed, otherwise we can have a 15 minutes break and then continue on the same thing.

Okay, continuando, okay, let's continue with our description of hardware, nicely required tools. And, I think, I think, something that cannot lack inside the tools of our forensic investigator are, of course, something about our old knowledge, which is light blocks and imaging devices, that we already quite extensively discussed, that we already quite extensively discussed in a previous focus point of a previous lesson.

Here you have an image of how it can resemble a specific bag of imaging devices, which is this one, I think. It's, yeah, I mean, I'm looking for the, for a sign of the manufacturer, but I can trust, I think, that I've written as a caption here, which is TX1, ELK TX1. What is nice to notice is the amount of different adapters and cables that are very relevant, the form factor and the number, a kind of, of physical ports, like Ethernet, like USB, different flavors of USB port, different antenna adapters, like, like SATA, for attaching, for attaching, for plugging hard drives, etc., etc., etc., is something that changes a lot the cost of this kind of device.

And, well, from many vendors, you have a specific suitcase, like this one, with different places for different adapters and cable and the device and the control panel for it, in order to connect and configure your imaging device that, in case of the expensive ones, device can be a standalone device, like, like in this case, like in this case, you can directly attach it, connect it to your, to your hard drive and start the forensic sound copy bit, bit a bit. But, anyway, we already focus on this kind of tools, a tool that, a family of tools that we still not mention, but nowadays is very important, because, in this context, in general, it's pretty hard to access the internal part of a memory, the mobile device acquisition tools that are special purpose devices, like, like, like this one, like this one, as you can see, you cannot read, I think, as me, the option here, but basically, you are going to configure an interaction procedure with a mobile system, like, in particular, Android One, one, but not necessarily an Android One, and with different models of your smartphone, in order to interact properly with the, with the operating system, and with the mobile smartphone configuration, and acquire, in a forensic sound way, all the information that you can acquire, which is, that is something that, with a normal interaction, with, with a smartphone device, normal interaction, I mean, if you connect, with a, for example, with a, for example, USB-C port, and connect the other side with a, common USB, you will be able to, to, to retrieve a, a small amount of information, some information, yes, but, not a huge amount of information, and this kind, not all information, or maybe, or maybe, it will be costly, it will be costly, it will be expensive, in terms of, time, and resources, and work, in order to find out the core configuration, to, to interact with, with your, with the device you are investigating on, the, the proper setup, instead, this kind of device, just in, with this kind of device, device, you just need, you just need, to select, select, the option, select, maybe, the model, and then start, the, the acquisition, which is, a nice, plus, in, in an investigation, in, in particular, something, with, with, with, when you interact, with a mobile, smartphone, your interaction is, in a, in a normal way, I mean, in a normal way, I mean, your interaction is, mediated by, the operating system, so, kind of, of, acquisition, like, a complete, uh, image, of, your device, performed, in a sound, in a sound, in a forensically sound way, meaning, bit by bit, copy, of, the memory, is, this, comprising, um, IDM, system, memory, and, and, files, at IDM or system level, or, specifically protected, specifically protected and difficult to reach content like catalogs or multimedia details.

Sometimes you can, sometimes you cannot. In general, if you try to access to a full forensic image, this is something that with normal means you probably should not obtain, and instead you can obtain just mediated by the smartphone operating system data that might be relevant, but they are not at the level of extensiveness and reliability of having a full physical, complete physical copy, physical image extraction, which is exactly the kind of work that UFD, Universal Forensic Extraction Device, is capable to perform. So this is a nice and expensive tool, but an essential one in many, in a large share of modern cases. In fact, I also asked to our department to buy at least one of them, but unfortunately, for this course, we did not have enough money because otherwise it would be nice, a nice ad in our laboratory or practical game that we can have in class. So I just can perform a kind of description for that, and this is exactly what I said.

Well, and this is something that UFID tools can perform from an ancient time, meaning 10-15 years. Modern UFID, in reality, can interact deeply with the mobile operating system internals, and can also instruct the mobile to perform access to the cloud-used application inside a smartphone, which is nowadays a large, if not the most part of information that a normal user of a smartphone might have. If I'm able to, if I know the credential for accessing to these services, to these cloud services, through a UFID device, I can retrieve also this kind of information from many different apps, apps like Google Drive, iCloud, in case of iPhone, Instagram instead of Facebook, instead of WhatsApp, instead of Messenger, again from Facebook, etc., etc., etc., and they have updated pretty quickly when new tools emerge in the common usage of a user, meaning, for example, well, Snapchat, which is more modern than WhatsApp, but this is a general concept. If new social media appear and get of large use, then this kind of devices implement the way to interact with them and acquire the information, which is not that complex, because nowadays we have the kind of interaction standard, which is de facto standardized for many different applications with common authentication protocols or small modification or slightly different configuration in respect of widespread authentication and authorization, and authorization protocols that are widespread use in this context, meaning, for example, OAuth-based ones.

And, well, another nice point that implements these nice devices is the fact that they can try to bypass the device to break the locking mechanisms, like the smartphone lock with different means, but even more notably the encryption of the device, trying to brute force, of course, the password, the key of the device, the device, but even since they know the specific device, exploiting mobile vulnerabilities of the system in order to escalate the privilege and then being able to jailbreak, to access fully the system internals and the storage of the device, the storage of a mobile file. So those are very, very interesting devices.

In case I'd be able to find one, I'll show you in the classroom, the usage of them, and I will accept volunteers that want to see if the smartphone is is vulnerable to some vulnerabilities and be able to jailbreak, being jailbreak and accessed fully. But this is on a voluntary basis, don't worry. Okay, and this is basically what I like. In my opinion, the most important points, of course, you may have more subtle ones, more details, but from an hardware perspective, I think it's a good panorama of what will be required to have a nice lab in place for your forensic investigation.

Of course, we have requirements in terms of software as well. We mentioned the nice characteristic that we want from tools inside, from software tools inside a digital, in a computer forensic investigation. And so, here, another set of the must that have to be provided by your software that we can briefly organize around flexibility and scalability, safe environments, easy recovery after a failure, a failure after an attack, or after, after, after, yeah, I'm mentioning more, after an experiment that, not by chance, but willingly damaged the evidence.

Of course, I'm not talking of a work on the original evidence, but of course, on a copy of it, in order to check, to, for example, activate, trigger the behavior of a suspected malware. For example, for example, for example, I might have a copy of a central memory, I can re-instantiate the same system with an analogous system on a different device, of course, maybe on a virtual environment, with the content of the original central memory, of the original RAM that had happened on the suspect device, and then I can start to provide a lot of device, and then I can start to provide a lot of stimulus on my system in order to check the presence of a stealthy malware, for example.

And this, of course, and this, of course, can change a lot of the state of my system. It might change a lot from the state of the original system to the present one, after being flooded by a huge amount of stimulus. But this is just according to my willing to experiment on that. And then, I need to be able... What's the meaning? What in practical terms might mean? This might mean that I need to have a kind of automatic workflow that, from a central memory, is capable to instantiate a virtual sandbox environment in a matter of seconds, then run it, then have a list of stimulus that can be injected in the system, and the capability to resume the results of the behavior that the system exposed after accepting this kind of triggering action, in order to be able to make automatic, many parts of a repetitive analysis, that can be very time-expensive, if I need to set up everything by manual work.

And then, easy recovery in here means I can repeat even invasive experiments pretty quickly. My tools, my setup in my lab should allow this kind of approach. And, well, flexibility and scalability and safe environment means that, in a normal forensic lab, I may accept different shapes, different devices that differ in shape, in interfaces, in computational power, in adapters. In operating systems, in applications running in different operating systems, and so on.

And I must be able to analyze all of them with no significant loss in effectiveness and efficiency. And then, the tools that I have, the software programs that I have in my lab should be, in principle, capable to cope with largely different scenarios. And this without introducing errors and with proper guards in place that do not allow system integrity compromise. And, well, in my lab, there should be also the possibility, well, in principle, I should be able to get my small bag of tools and replicate this and obtain the same nice property, even on a crime scene.

Which is, as you may imagine, not that simple. Those are ideal properties in practice. Of course, I need to deal with cost and time to set up constraints that, unfortunately, reduce a lot the initial ideal. Well, in practical terms, from, well, this is used in practice, this is something used in practice, but very interesting, from an educational perspective, the concept of portable operating system, which is something that I'm able to carry on relatively small pendrive, and that is capable to run many devices, with an appropriate adapter to connect to a device, I should be capable to run it on many devices.

In this field, we have a lot of Linux, Linux, if you want, but Linux-based distribution, some years ago, distributed in what was named a live CD, then a live DVD. Now a live DVD nowadays is a pen drive, which is, in any case, a small device, a pen drive, a DVD, that is capable to carry a full operating system, which is completely under my control, with the library, with the application, with anything. Anything with the proper setup, with the proper configuration, that I can use when I'm on a crime scene in particular, or even in my lab, but when I'm in a time and space, let me say, constrained scenario, in which I need to act on the suspect device, but that can provide me a reasonably trusted system, and a powerful capability to control and to access to the target device, because I run a completely independent operating system and application set, and all the intermediate tools, software, tools, software tools, that allow to run and interact to the system, the libraries of the system.

And historically, historically, we have a lot of notable ones. We, in this field, I think all of you know CALI distribution, which is a cyber security, general purpose distribution, that might be used, that might be used also for digital forensic. Why not? You have a lot of tools, and you might, and you can install other ones very easily using, for example, the APT-based packet management tool coming from Ubuntu. But you have also forensically special purpose distribution, that, well, are in general less updated than CALI one, but as any of them has a more specific setup for forensic analysis, like the capability to mount by default, and to put in read-only easily, the device that you connect, the storage device, I mean, that you connect to the system.

Here, we have some historical, nowadays, not so maintained ones like Alex and that, I like more cane that I used in the past. We have SIFT from SANS, which is a nicely managed one. We have a pretty modern one, which is Tsuruji, that, by the way, was managed by Professor Dalkeko, which is a nice professor. For me, for maybe some of you that will have a thesis with me, but it's a pretty modern one. Okay? So, those are nice special purposes. For me, for maybe some of you that will have a thesis with me, but it's a pretty modern one.

Okay? So, those are nice special purposes. distribution. That, well, and of course, in a modern setup, you may use them, you may take advantage of the system. For me, for maybe some of you that will have a thesis with me, but it's a pretty modern one. Okay? So, those are nice special purposes. The way you can't find a plan for this. So, and this is what I'm talking about. So, in a modern setup, you may take advantage of the functionality and the application that they provide to run your virtual machine with your forensic sound, let's say, forensically aware, forensically customized distribution inside a virtual machine in which you can attach some virtual disks that might be your direct evidences that you want to analyze.

So those functionality have your virtual machine with your cane distribution and, for example, virtual box, if you set up some virtual disks, you can copy directly or you can define an external virtual disk, which is exactly your storage evidence and start your analysis in a read-only way until you want to change it to perform some more destructive experiments. For example, if you want to explore the behavior of a mother, like we said. Okay, and this is a nice and quick setup that allows almost immediate starting of your exploration of suspects of digital evidence that you want to analyze. Well, focusing now on file system interaction, I think we should have some more technical detail of the interaction that we want to have in order to be aware of what we can do interacting with a system. And so the mounting process is a relevant one. The mounting process is something more or less that is more or less present in a unix-derived system, which is the process of enlarging, let's say, what the operating system propose to the normal user applications to access, read, write, and manipulate data on a permanent, let's call, level.

And this is an abstraction that allows to enlarge the local file system regardless of the kind of file system. We might have this concept on X4 if we are using Linux, on 20FS, if we are using Windows-based system, on HFS, if we are using Mac OS6, etc., etc., etc. But also, and this is a nice point to remember, not only on the local file system, but since the file is a kind of abstraction of a metaphor, we may interact with different kinds of devices, apparently interacting with the same file system, the same file system, thanks to the mounting process, which is, in a very abstract term, the process of making available a storage and presenting it like it was a part of the normal, which is a pretty vague statement, but is what is what is, I think, I think is current with the perception of a normal user, like it was a normal part of your device. And what I was mentioning is that, notably, this might make external physical devices, like DVDs, like SD memory, like USB pen drives, USB pen drives, but even something that is significantly different, like network-based pieces of information, I mean, information that comes from the network instead of from an access to something physical, physically present in connection to my computing device, as it was, as it was part, again, as it was part, again, of my file system, thanks, for example, to specific application layer protocols, like NFS, that present, that is properly implemented, or in case of Unix, or SMB, in case of Windows, like it was part, like it was a part, of course, the change in the performance, like it was locally present. And even in terms of performance, if we are accessing storage devices that are closed inside a full-speed network, network, maybe the access can be similar to an old magnetic network, maybe the access can be similar to an old magnetic hardware. And so, difficult to discern for a normal user what is local and what is remote.

The practical effect of the practical effect of making accessible this kind of resource from a different physical device or from the network is the creation of a folder inside of my previous tree of folders that exposed the content the content through this metaphor of files and directories or folders, as you prefer to call them. And it presents it as a specific point in the file system, in your directory tree. For like, for example, for like, for example, slash MNT, slash USB. This is known as the mount point. And from the mounting time of the operation on, you will be able to access it exactly using the same system call, the same application, the same application that you use to access a normal file. And this is a nice aspect. What are behind the same, the operations performed by the mounting operation are usually, in modern file system, a check of the file system.

For like, for example, a check of the file system on the storage medium in order to, to achieve a good degree of reliability, in order to avoid the mounting of something that contains errors or inconsistencies. So this is the first, the first check. For like, for example, the first check. For instance, the first check. So this is the first check. So this is the first one. So, this is the first check. And then if, again, if there are no fatal errors here, otherwise this can emit a kind of error, and many times, a kind of advice like you have some structure of the file system, of the target file system corrupted. or the file system is different to what is expected, or is not supported, whatever is avoid the insertion of the new storage inside my directory tree, and then you may have some advice that suggest the tools to correct the error, sometimes also suggest the formatting of the storage that from a forensic perspective probably is not the best option if we are dealing with any evidence. Nevertheless, advices most of the time are provided. In case we have no error in the first check, then the mounting process checks for file systems metadata, meaning an attempt to understand the structure of the directories and files, how they are organized, how you can interact with that specific file system in order to set correctly to the parameters of the host operating system to interact properly with this new storage, let's say.

And finally, associate this properly now customize the way of interaction to a specific point in the file system in order to allow the NOMA command, the NOMA system code that allows to move inside the directory tree to correctly affect also the movement inside this new file system path. And after the mounting of the file system unsmounted, then you can interact from application level perspective seamlessly to this new file system. of course, this is always something that might be aware also at user level because you may, in case of particular, of closed, for example file system, you may have incomplete, partial, not fully reliable implementation of interaction with the file system. For example, for Linux user is, well, for Seasonate, the Linux user, I would say, the interaction with MTFS, MTFile system, will be very annoying for, well, many years because MTFile system is closed. So the interaction needed, the development of tools capable to interact with MTFile system required reverse engineering the MTFile system, and the implementations available for many years for that, suffered some bad and resulted in some, from time to time, in disastrous interaction that damaged the whole external file system, with a lot of pain in the user of the Austin system. And, well, it's good to know this aspect because we should, as a forensic investigator, we also choose, we need to choose, a correct way to interact with the NIC level file system, with a rare file system type, with new file system type, that can result, if not properly managed, in erroneous acquisition of data. So, also this aspect is part of important knowledge from file system, forensic perspective.

Here are two very simple examples of a sequence of two commands that may be used in order to connect, for example, for example, to a Linux box, a USB device, given the fact that it is a kind of SATA-based one, so you see it like a device of SD type. And the other meaning, I guess, I think most of you completely know the effect of that is, please take the raw, let me say, device present here, and put it inside the file system so it properly interpret this device, this raw device with the file metaphor and put it inside this folder. So, like for example, you may appreciate running a command that checks the content, that exposed the content of that folder of that directory, you may access the content of the original USB, for hypothesis, device here, inside this point, and differently from what you can do with this access point, with this access point, with this access to the device, that is a Roblox block type of device, so you can access with byte level operation. Here you have the file system, the normal file system metaphor, so you can access with your, for example, point and click visual interface, your file explorer, your command in a command shell like ls, etc., etc., and access it like the whole rest of your file system. This, from a forensic perspective, has impact and consequences, we will explore it slightly later.

Before, I like to mention that we have the inverse process, which is named unmounting, that instead it will detach the file system from the directory structure and which is crucial, very important, to safely remove a device from the connection, your storage device from the connection to your computing device. And this is crucial because the optimization solution that any computing device put in place when you access a storage device, again, is something that we should aware of in terms of system administrator. If I unplug and properly this kind of device, I can introduce inconsistencies in my storage. Why? Because, for example, due to the buffering for optimization sake, for efficiency sake, for performance sake, not all the operations that I command to my system to put on the storage, like writing down 10 megabytes of data are immediately performed on your device. Why? Because otherwise your program, your application, your operating system should hold, should wait for a large, in respect of the, the quickness that we are used in, to experience in a normal interaction with the operating system. Otherwise, you should wait a multi-second operation, which is the writing on a, of a large amount of data on your hard drive. Instead, this operation is buffered and worked in the ground while you continue to perform the other operation, and apparently you already set this data on your storage.

And, but if you unplug your system or you break in any way the connection with that storage, you will result in only partially written down operation. I mentioned here some examples like right behind cache, which is basically delayed writing due to performance improvement, as I mentioned. And also the update of the structure of the file system might be delayed due to optimization inside your operating system. And if you brutally remove the device, also this structure, this metadata of the target file system can become inconsistent. And you might no longer be able to retrieve all your information if you cut your connection just in the middle of an update of the information on the storage.

And this kind of, this knowledge, as I mentioned, is important for a system administrator, for a, even for a, even for a normal user, but even more for, for a, for a sick investigator that can notice, or that can, that in first instance, should avoid this kind of, of raw error in, in, in, in performing interaction with a, with a system, but also can notice notice something ongoing or setting on a suspect machine, like a suspect that suddenly remove a file, this might propose a line of action, a quick line of action, in order to, to prevent further damage, change, or you can arrange proper guidelines in order to acquire a system. And this might involve even simple operations, like if you are switching off a computer, or if you are unplugging some physical device, check the consistency, wait for the final update of the system, if you want to have consistent information, for example. So, it's a, a process that is good to be aware of, then wait for data buffer flashing, for data buffer flashing, and, the closing of open file handles, in order to avoid an inconsistent state, an inconsistent state, and, also, you should know that, for joining file system, like S4 file system, S4 file system, this kind of operation affects the journal. This is a concept that is particularly relevant in a forensic investigation, and this is exactly, conceptually, the same, the same that we exploited, when, in our investigation on the, on the, on the, John case.

John case. From a forensic perspective, it's good to know where this kind of operation are logged in a target operating system. In case of Windows, we've seen some pre-fetched information that allow us to reconstruct the usage of USB file. In a journal defense, system, we can find information, we can find information, updated and present, of course, after amount and unmount procedure. So, we may have a list of pre-fetched information that allows us to reconstruct the usage of USB file. the usage of USB file. In a journal defense system, we can find information, updated and present, of course, after amount and unmount procedure. So, we may have a list of the devices that interact with the system, and then, useful information to reconstruct a case. Like, in our example, that was useful to have a mind frame, when we talk of this slightly more abstract concept. And, well, when we start to interact with a, with a system, here we are getting more practical, we need to be aware of the commands that allow us to, to understand the characteristics of a file system, some in a direct or undirect way. Like, for example, again, a tool that we already encountered when I proposed to you the example of this system called manipulation. The D-message. In that case, the D-message.

the D-message is the tool that allows to see a lot of operating system level information. Among the others, also, the interaction with the external devices, like USB mounting. The more detailed information, the information, the more detailed information can be obtained, for example, through the LSBLK command that allows us to understand more characteristics of the device that we may access on our system. F-disc is something that allows us to understand more. F-disc is something that allows us to manipulate, but also to get the description of a particular file system, overall information of a particular file system, present, connected to our computing device. And those are basically under F-disc is something that allows us to understand more. F-disc is something that allows us to understand more.

F-disc is something that allows us to understand more. F-disc is something that allows us to understand more. But there are also other apps that help us to understand more. OpenBSD, many of them also on the Mac OS X. We have Windows counterpart, like for example, we have PowerShell counterpart that allow us to understand the system level interaction, get Windows event, for example, or get information on disk, like get disk command, similarly to LSBLK, or to get information about the shape of our file system, for example, regarding partitions on a file, not on a file system, on an external device, I meant external device, which may be very well different in respect of a specific file system. And similarly to fdisk, we have in a window box, get partition, for example. And of course, we might have utilities that allow to interact and modify a system. We need to understand, if we want to do that, how to interact with a storage device without altering the content of a device. For example, associated to the mount operation, all the time you have the option to include the content of the storage in your directory tree in a read-only way. For example, in case of Linux, we have the read-only option, and the flag in a Linux-based system is the "-o", that means provide the following option.

option, RO as an option means mount the content of SDB1 as a read-only file system in this point in your file system. So, interacting with normal operation, you'll be able just to read and not to wrap it, which is something that most of the time is desirable, even if most of the time not enough to ensure no modification of your storage. The mount is something that you may use for analysis. Again, a simple piped command like I run the mount which provides me the mounted system with some information and if I want to focus on a specific one, here I can grab it and I can see some information like the mount point, the file system type and the most important operation. Here I have some desirable one from a forensic perspective. This is a VFAT means FAT32 based file system. We have it in read-only. We can, if mounted in this way, prevent the execution, so prevent malicious execution as well from my nice file system that I'm mounting, the disabling of super user ID bits that allow to privilege elevation, you know, normally in a authorised way. But if I'm examining a foreign, a stranger file system that I do not know, I never examined until now, this is something that can be nice to avoid the possibility to have privileges. And also the fact that I do not want to manage on this file system special device is a kind of counter-measure because I may have a special purpose device on this file system that can trigger strange behavior that my food, my my analysis, my analysis in some way. We may have a quick excursus on the different file system types, but I think that today is quite late, so we can, for today, stop here and continue next time, unless there is any question or sharing that you want to give to the audience. Do you have a question? Okay. Oh, please. Thank you.

On a physical separate machine, you mean? Yeah, okay. What do you mean by a snapshot? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, in general, it's more, it's more, let's say, easy, just it's more easy to have your virtual machine with a range, I mean, a virtual machine with the same characteristics of the target of the suspect machine in order to get that and immediately recreate another running box in a virtual environment. You have a lot of advantages. One, you have a sandbox that then, in case of malicious behavior, you have a well-constrained environment.

And then it's much, nowadays, more quick set up this kind of tool, like, for example, in context of infrastructure as a code, when you can, and in software defined network and so on, when you, through code can define a whole setup, and you can do that in a virtualized environment. So you can, not physically, but virtually, in a matter of seconds. So you can run your exploration much quicker because your tools are set up in a much quicker way. That's a kind of practicality. Of course, in some cases, you cannot do that because you have a constraint in terms of resources. If you are duplicating a large machine, maybe you do not have a virtual machine that is capable to run it. In that case, yes, I need that physical one.

Welcome. Thank you for the, for the question. Good point. Okay. I'm very happy, thanks to this final interaction. Thank you for the question. And if not, the one, even from remote, want to provide a share of thoughts, I think we can satisfactorily conclude our lesson now. Okay. Thank you.
