Okay, I think we can start. There is any question from the previous lectures or remarks or doubts about any aspect? Not so far. I uploaded also on the portal, I think you already said that, the complete walkthrough of the case we explored in the lab. I remark again, it's just a possibility that I propose among the many possibilities that you can have thought on the base of the scenario that I presented. Okay, in case you want to share for example by email in order to have further, we discussed that last Wednesday, but in order to have further discussion you can also send me your arranged case if you write down anything that you want to discuss and we can also discuss the how is realistic, what about your findings etc. by email.

If you want a completely optional point. For today, instead, I'm going to introduce some arguments about the fact that you need a trusted environment in order to have a proper, admissible and also technically sound forensic investigation because there are many possible stuff that can go wrong willingly or because a system, even if the owner of the system is not aware, that are externally compromised. For example, due to some kind of malware infection that may be placed at many points. In fact, we will go through some possible cases of high level, more or less high level, compromission possibilities, possibilities and also some examples, more low level, more detailed, the possibilities of actions that can be done to compromise something in an environment. Of course, just a very very high level in any case, just in order to allow you to pay attention from a mental frame perspective of what can happen in a system. Because I think that this kind of awareness is relevant in starting and taking part of a forensic investigation. Two, the point is, well, the infection can happen from a network architectural perspective in two big points, at node level and at network level. Meaning, by network level, that, for example, there can be all the nodes can be legitimate, but that some malicious node can insert in the network some kind of sniffing or traffic injection and change the behavior of the legitimate one. But, of course, the problem can happen also at node level. Like, for example, we may have a malware spread through Toy and Horses, apparently legitimate or useful software that can contain some functionalities that that provoke in the system a wrong behavior or that are able to change or to gather credentials and then can provoke further steps in an attack chain. Or you may be, as a human, be the weak link, as many times happen, and you tend to misbehave due to social engineering attack. Like, for example, mails that... or chat level messages that in a hurry asks you in a hurry asks you to perform some not coherent with your policy action.

Like, for example, do a bank transfer of half a million euros, which is a real case that happened some years ago, at the European level, for example. Or share credentials, because the other, the counterpart, is claiming to be in a hurry, in a realistic scenario, like doing a presentation with an important partner, and maybe having a crash in the system, a sudden crash in a system that do not longer allow the interaction with the partners only to access quickly to a a try to a cloud-based backup of some sensitive information. Or maybe the fact that, well, a node can can be accessed physically, and then can be physically compromised, even if, well, even if there are, from a logical perspective, good access control, but not so good, not at the level of hardware protection, for example. So maybe it can be accessed somehow. Or I mentioned the fact that also there is the possibility of unwilling misbehavior, like, for example, in case of bugs of your application. Here we are in the field of certification, of compliance, the need to adopt certified tools, both from hardware and software perspective. We mentioned that fact that when we talk about red blockers, it is good to have some certified or at least comply in a list of compliant tools when you need to defend, to reply to counter arguments that try to, well, to counter your conclusions. So bug and configuration errors are very, very common. And, well, on the other side of the spectrum, we have completely willing misbehavior of the system owner that, of course, need to be quite expert in doing that, but can change. Having root level permission access to the system can change almost everything in the system and then cause very, very unusual behavior in an apparently perfectly working system and can change well. Operating system calls device driver functionality, for example, the device driver that allows the access to the storage may be changed in order to, for example, why not, to conceal the content of a specific folder. Okay, just a kind of pattern, a simple, very simple pattern match that we can code with a regular expression saying, if you are accessing a folder named like this and all the subfolders there do not listen it, well, unless you are using this specific command like modified ls or, well, just to give you a possible example, and in the case the the behavior of the system appear very appropriate, apart that specific change. And this may happen at very different level down to even firmware and BIOS level. So, if you use a device that is not well certified, examined by you, still, even if you use your home, for example, portable distribution that you can plug in through your USB pen drive, still you might be possibly subject to alteration in your analysis.

And, well, node infection can be done through many, may have many multiple, many possible effects, effects affect, for example, commands, install backdoors that allow access untraced maybe from from outside, something that, as I said, can hide the possible part of the system, or maybe that can get and send out the credential you insert in the system, and so on, and so on. You may have multiple cases of that, of that, I think, that you can imagine in a minute, many, many cases along this range. And, well, this kind of compromission might be in different flavor. Of course, it can be persistent due to, for example, effective, clearer malware, or because the system administrator changed it permanently.

And, well, you may have different aspects, like, different effects, like, exfiltration and or denial of service, for example, or just a kind of intermediate component that allow to conclude a more sophisticated attack, like in an advanced persistent threat, where the compromission of one specific node allows, for example, getting into a network and then continue the spreading of the infection, infecting the other nodes, because now you are inside, you trespassing already some security boundaries, like the border firewall, the maybe reverse proxy, outside the different access control, maybe you can more easily get into an internal virtual private network and so on. In general, unless you implement a strong zero-trust architecture, when you infect an internal node, you acquire a lot more possibilities, you enlarge a lot as an attacker, your attack surface of the victim versus the victim. And yeah, instead, from the network perspective, you are able to compromise, to inject, to modify, to delete, even, maybe, the traffic and the actions inside the network, even if you did not compromise any specific node, just because you added somehow the possibility to insert some different or modified pieces of traffic.

or maybe you are just interested in acquiring credentials and you might be able to redirect and acquire them with a minimum amount of traces inside the network traffic. Just to give you some example, I just go through a nice the nice family of men at work. You have men in something, many, many men in something, a growing family, let's say, that allow you, allow an attacker to compromise some specific piece of the system, of the target system, the probably the larger and more well-known component is the man in the middle, that is a kind of superclass here, that can involve a lot, a lot of subclasses. Man in the middle concept, I think anyone knows what year, what it means, basically, someone between two legitimate parties is capable to get the traffic and alter it in order to change some specific behavior.

We have, well, a lot of possible cases, just since I'm talking about network traffic. I think that, for example, the ARP table poisoning is very well known by anyone here. We, I think you already experienced that in one of the first labs in the security course. This is a, you know that, how it works, right? There is someone that has not, is very clear, just to remember you, two words. In a local area network, you have the nice translation of IP addresses and MAC addresses, right? And you exchange data using the MAC addresses in practical terms, but the, your application use the IP addresses in order to identify, in order to identify what is the node that you are exchanging information to or from, okay?

And this translation is done at local area network through the ARP protocol, right? And the system usually has a table that maps the correspondence between the IP and the MAC address, right? Yes, okay. I'm just asking, in order to understand, if you are understanding, because I thought that this was a very common knowledge. In case it is, just say so. I do not go through this, not very interesting details. But in case not, so we have this table, then when I send or receive messages, I, or the other legitimate party, use this mapping to send them messages, to send them data.

If some, but the ARP protocol is not authenticated. So, anyone, and is a broadcaster, well, is something that any node inside the local area network can listen, can sniff, and that can forge. So, a malicious node can send a malicious correspondence between an IP and a MAC address to a poor node, to a victim inside the local area network, and then the victim will, when they believe, to send data to one specific IP, instead will send the data to another node in the local area network, because the ARP table has been infected by this not-authenticated ARP message.

Okay, and this is, since ARP messages are not authenticated, anyone inside the network, inside a local area network, because we are talking about a protocol at layer 2, is capable of forcing them, and then, for example, can change a legitimate node B, the MAC address of a legitimate node B, with the MAC address of a malicious node, in order to acquire the traffic, for example, of a victim node A, or may change that was directed originally to node B, or instead can, for example, change the correspondence with the local gateway, or with the local domain name server, and then, for example, act like a DNS shadow server, or acquire all the data directed outside, because sent to, in the intention of the victim node A, to the gateway.

Okay, and this is a possible kind of ARP poisoning attack, and this is at low level. On the other side of the OSI, of the TCP IP protocol stack, we may have, for example, attack on the behavior that exploit weaknesses at application layer level, like, for example, the HTTP session ejaculate. That, for example, can be done through the cross-site script, for example, a kind of attack that is still ongoing, and that some years ago was very, very widespread.

That, for example, I uploaded some slides on that. You may, well, we may have a quick, you don't want to, it's simple, dedicate too much time on that, but just in order to have an example that allow to see how my, an example can work. We may have a cross-site script, that due to the collaboration of some network technologies, like client-side scripting through JavaScript, for example, allow to acquire information. For example, the idea, I believe you know pretty much the network level technologies. So, you know, HTTP, HTTPS is the TLS-based version of HTTP. So, in principle, all the HTTP traffic is encrypted, is protected, until flow on the network. But when go to the final, to the end node, the stuff is different. Like, on the end node, scripting might be executed, like JavaScript. And, for example, if we have a session put inside a specific cookie, cookie, I guess you perfectly know what a cookie is, that is sent back and forth between the client and the server, if we have something at client level compromised, like, for example, a script that, thanks to some possible unsafe code that allow for, in this example, to put a component from the the interaction of the user into the local document object model of the client, then, if this input is not sanitized, this can contain, for example, some executable part, like, in this example, we have from a kind of input, after the name of an URL, a set of parameters, you see the question mark that means parameter, not some what is expected by the developer of this code, but instead a full piece of code, a full executable, which is in, in, in, in, in, correct HTML language that say, for example, please, take this nice content, the cookie inside the client, inside the client browser, and send them to this evil server, okay, this is a very simple example of what may happen if we do not have countermeasures in place and sanitization of the input in place, okay, clear for everyone, perfect, and why this is related to the session, and then a malicious guy can get in, because, by hypothesis, we have the session ID, which is the identifier of a session, transferred as a cookie, okay, which is a pretty common way to transfer that. And then, with this malicious code, evo.com can get this session ID, and then get in, the inject inside this, this session. And so, HTTP, even if with the final S, can be injected and compromised by this kind of attack, okay, and then, well, about what we may do, we have a lot of possible countermeasures, like very basic, we may state that a cookie cannot be used by JavaScript with the HTTP only flag, HTTP only flag, and that we do not want to share information with different nodes apart the one that creates the request, and we are interacting the same side, the strict policy.

of course, also, and well, and the sanitization of code is something that in the development courses that I have, that I, in which I teach, I stress a lot. Anytime you have something that comes from a different point, user external user inputs, external module inputs, but even inter-module interaction among your developed module is good to sanitize, to check and modify properly the user input in order to avoid the injection of any family, SQL, HTTP, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc.

Now, some details, if you want to explore that, not a very complex topic. And, well, this is the big man in the middle family. We have many sub-classes and some flavors, let's say, like, for example, we may have infection of the browser, that is very common, in particular, in some specific type of attacks, like banking trillions, that infect the browser, usually, and that are capable to seamlessly modify specific behavior, like for example, when the malware recognizes that you are accessing to a banking page on site, in order to do something like that you are accessing to a banking page on site, in order to do something like that you are accessing to a banking page on site, in order to do some online banking action, and then, for example, slightly modify what you insert, or what's inside the form, in order to harvest your credential.

Very, very simple modification. If your browser is infected by a malware, when identifying a form received by a bank that wants to send your username and password, for example, can alter the action inside the form that will send, changing, for example, the URL inside there, in order to change it, to send your credential to another node, instead of the bank one, and this is a simple way in which an attacker can get your credential, if your browser is infected. Other possible men are, nowadays, nowadays, are pretty well explained. The men in the cloud, where we are not saying that the cloud provider is infected, but instead the mechanisms that allow you to access the cloud provider is infected, but instead the mechanism that allow you to access the cloud, the cloud service is infected, and this usually involves the acquisition, again, the sniffing, or the acquisition of the...

of the OAuth token, which is normally the protocol used in this kind of accesses, like in case of Google Drive, in order to reuse it, and in this case, in fact, we are in a pretty similar case of the HTTP session. Many times, this is very similar to this session that I presented. Somehow, we acquired the OAuth token, and in this case, we have the problem of not specifying that the usage of this token is too large, not very specified for what specific resource resource is meant, and then this, of course, violates the principle of this privilege, if you want.

Many times, this is overlooked by the developer and by system administrator, and you have a pretty large OAuth token that allow access for a long time, and that allow access to many resources, many resources, not restricting properly the authorization. And, well, this is useful to remember also during a forensic investigation. If you are in a case in which there is, there might be some compromise in some part of the network, something that you should check is the configuration at the network level of the services. Meaning, in particular, the credentials used to exchange data. Well, first of all, understand what are the services running on the target network you are investigating, and then looking inside the configuration of those services in order to understand if, for example, for example, at identification or authorization level there is some misconfiguration that can be the source of a compromission. Other possible men in the something cases are, well, the nice men in the mobile, which is particularly interesting because it is a for example, because it is used to to fool multi-factor authentication most of the time. Like, I cited here, the Zipmode malware that is a malware that is capable, if inside a smartphone infected, to get the SMS and send it to a malicious actor that, in real time, can acquire the second credential of your multi-factor authentication, and then fool it in real time. Okay? Well, and, well, it's nice to mention that in the last few months we, this is a pretty old case, years ago, still active, but nowadays we experience, thanks to the user, we have a experience, thanks to the user of artificial intelligence, an incredible speed-up of this kind of attack, meaning that, thanks to an agent, artificial intelligence agents, the attackers are capable of shaping a customized attack in a few minutes, so can, from the initial, the initial phases of an attack, to the complete compromise of your system, even, that involves also the change, the change of your password to access a service, just a couple of minutes can pass. And this is something really, I this is something really happened in some attacks in the last month. So, capable to intercept your data, your smartphone, your smartphone second factor, and to change, and to understand what your services, your normal services are, the service that you usually access, and lock you out, and you out, in just a matter of means, thanks to investigation of the content of a device, in a very speedy way, and creation of specifically crafted code, that specific exploits, that allow to change, and to infect all your services.

And this started from compromising your second factor authentication. Oh, Oh, Another one, the main in the disk, old folder, much, much more old-level, but, not very nice, because, uh, it's a kind of, uh, evergreen, and, uh, is, meantime, overlooked. You, many times, think that your external storage is just a kind of, uh, uh, init, of inert something, place in which there is not so much that can go wrong, but instead a lot of attacks are created historically, exploiting man-in-the-disc, man-in-the-storage concept. And yeah, I think that I uploaded on the portal also some examples on that, and I think that they are very interesting from an educational, let's say, perspective, because I think that they put in the correct light what may happen and what should be your approach in order to examine a case where to find how you can identify sources of compromise. Some examples. Well, the overall concept is you have some places in which your running application or your device or your operating system put or get data to or from, and this exposed the data to the possibility of being manipulated.

The point is that this storage is a kind of point of passage and usually might have a very large attack surface that an attack can intervene in order to modify without even being noticed by the legitimate application. This is, and since, again, I say it because I think I have seen that many times and it's very relevant, even without the suspect from the victim of being manipulated somehow, because, for example, can check that the application is perfectly fine, the operating system is perfectly fine, everything is behaving as expected, but nonetheless, the confirmation happens. For example, ah, well, this is a very typical one, in a multi-user, you know, in a multi-user system, the temporary directory, like, for example, the root TMP folder inside a Linux or, in general, a Unix-derived system, in which you, for example, can, is used by many system and user application to write a temporary file.

And since anyone can write on that, even an attacker, for example, a malicious user inside your multi-user system, can use to mount an attack. Like, this is an example that allows you to understand a possible case. If an application, a service, whatever writes to this app.tmp file without using, without the usage of specific instructions that avoid this kind of problem, then another application, another program, can write or modify that in order to mount a more or less destructive attack, like this one.

Here, the attacker creates a symbolic link, for example, this is a kind that might be a kind of denial-of-service attack. Okay, create a symbolic link that connects the password file, where all the, usually, the credentials inside a system are placed with this one. So, when the application tries to write it, then follows the same link and already writes the password, the file, erasing the password inside the system. But this is just a very clear example. You can try to redirect that to many possible, or another possibility is if you are writing on nice, sensitive information.

If you are writing sensitive information there, I can change to a symbolic link that I, as an attacker, can easily access, maybe on another system, and then get that information. Okay, I can think of many, many possible cases that allow to exploit this kind of behavior in order to damage or acquire information. And, well, here, just to remember you, that this is real for many cases. Manning the disk, in general, is something that can be prevented, not very, with too much hardening of the system. But if you overlook that, you miss that, and then it's available in your system.

That's why it's so nice and widespread. In this case, for example, you have plenty of possibility of possibility inside a Linux system to avoid this kind of behavior. Like, for example, the max temp system call that allow to create, in an atomic way, a file in order to use that to be sure that is used by an application. Or the, oh, exclude flag that, for example, when you try to access to a file, check if not open by anyone else. Okay, this kind of tools just use the normal setup of any Linux system. Like, for example, very, very simple. When this, this system call creates a new file, for example, very simple, very simple, very simple, but you need to do that. Okay, we may have the case of desktop apps, in which the desktop application stores, the data on an accessible, temporary folder. And again, the concept is the same. You may access, for example, the Word document temporarily stored there. This might be subject to subtle attacks. Like, for example, if you put this file in a temporary folder, you may access, for example, the Word document temporarily stored there. This might be subject to subtle attacks. Like, for example, if you put this file in a temporary folder, someone might inject their arbitrary code. This is, of course, true if you did not check what you get after maybe some minutes back, if there is any modification. And most of the time, you do not check again, if you leave your file temporarily for some minutes on a public folder. And maybe someone can put in some macros, for example, inside your .x or Excel files, or even more subtle, maybe some figures have been manipulated in order to conceal inside them information. We are then in the field of steganography here, which is a nice one. Or maybe you can see someone. Or maybe injected some codes inside the figure, even more subtle, if the figures later, and maybe the attacker knows that we are in a subtle case here, knows that the figure was sent on the internet, and knows that some programs check them, and try to execute some kind of figure. Like, for example, SVG files are just the scalable vector graphics, is a vector graphics that is just a file, an SVG file is just a long set of code, of information that say, how the shapes should be drawn on the box. Circles, lines, but even text. And you can put there also some data, some code, or PDF files inside a PDF, inside a PDF figure. You may use PDF to to store figures as well. But in a PDF file, you may also have JavaScript executable code, for example. And then, you may modify a PDF figure, if inside a document, in order to put there some code that some PDF reader will execute after, and so on.

So here we may have a double layer of subtleties. In a temporary file, you modify an apparently innocuous docx, with something inside, and you put something inside an even more more apparently innocuous part, which may be a figure in there. Both of them can result in a very difficult to identify, an attack very difficult to identify and to, well, defend against. Very nice one, I'd say. Well, nowadays we have continuous development and continuous interaction concept in place, mostly everywhere. In this case, we may, we have a lot of intermediate phases. I think you know the concept of continuous integration. Development is a, is a development, approach that automatizes everything in order to have, in order to have, from the development to the place in production, an automatic pipeline that creates execution, and executable, check, tests, and check, tests, then maybe put in a, in a, in a, in a, in a, in a, in a, in a, in a, in a, in a, in a, in a, in a test.

everything in order to have from the development to the place in production an automatic pipeline that create executable, check, test, then maybe put in a test bed equivalent to the production one and check it if it's perfectly working, and if it works, put it in production and run it with limited interaction with a human being. But in order to run this complex infrastructure, there are lots of intermediate steps in which you need to storage intermediate artefacts.

And in these cases, even an attacker, in case it gains limited access to some place in this pipeline, can inject a modified artefact, maybe in the middle, can result at the end in something maliciously infected, but where the infection starts is lost in the midst of the pipeline. Very nice, again, and this can happen anytime you have a shared file system used by the pipeline. Another, well, I like, I hope that you are appreciating the subtleties of this kind, this family of attacks.

Another interesting one is the long file poisoning, apart the obvious in which, okay, maybe I'm capable to conceal, to hide the trace of an attack, and that's true, if the logs are in a shared place, but I'm more interested here in the cases in which the log file poisoning is the log file poisoning is an intermediate step of an attack, where embedding in the log files, which is much more easy, much more easy in general, to write on a log file than erase it. Because, yeah, normal behavior is, okay, I protect from the deletion of a log because I want to read a log file, and usually an attacker wants to, as a legitimate administrator, and usually an attacker wants to erase it in order to conceal the trace, the traces of an attack.

And so, usually this is something that is obtained by normal administrator. But instead, in case the log file is used, manipulated by some tools, this can be subject to embedding into the log file of specifically crafted logs, that, for example, can trigger misbehavior, that can crush, maybe, a system, or even, and nowadays is getting more, is much more usual, in case the log file is manipulated because, for example, need to create a report, need to instruct, inform other pieces of a complex controlling infrastructure, in which I need to get logs from many different pieces of a complex system, and put them together, and briefly present to a system administrator in a secure operating center, or places like that.

This kind of parsers interpret and can execute, can be tempted sometimes, if the log is properly created, like the problem is again somehow the big umbrella of input sanitization. But sometimes, when trying to manipulate these logs, they can interpret the log as executable instruction, and then can be fooled in executing malicious code as well. Again, this is a very nice point, and this can be done, if I know that there is a downstream vulnerable parser, by writing in a widely open folder where any application can write to, like the var log folder inside a Linux system.

Okay, that's why it's much more easy, if I know that there is a downstream parser vulnerable to mount this kind of attack, instead of just trying to erase, to delete a log. Ah, well, in many systems, very nice. Well, yes, I installed a program just yesterday, and used a temporary folder in order to install intermediate component. If you need to update or modify your system installing a different version or a different application, many times the installer procedure or updating procedure will use some temporary folder in order to store intermediate components, like the installer itself, most of the time.

If you want, this is a kind of all-flavor pipeline infection, like the case that we've seen in the continuous integration development case. But since it is much more common, it is a very widespread one. And in this case it is obvious, if it is inside a temporary folder, in order a malicious attacker can get the intermediate artifact, modify it, and then leave it for the continuation in the same place for the continuation of the installation procedure. Also, in this case, maybe I checked the component, the original one, that's fine. And I just run the installer, and so as a normal user, I am completely unaware of being compromised by another user.

And this can be swapping the installer itself, or even by swapping specific components of the installer, in case the installation downloads many components, like in the case of running a dockerized system in which you get a lot of docker images, or an npm installation in which you may download, in any case in which you are downloading lots of components. And this may happen during the installation procedure. Well, and another very typical one, the SMB network file system, in which you, in this case, we are in a kind of mixed scenario, in which we are also in a network level one.

But yeah, this is the obvious case in which part of your storage system is inside the network. And for example, this is obtained in Windows-based system, in Windows-based system, thanks to the SMB file or network file system in Unix cases, and so on. This is a typical case in which normal users do not set the correct level of permission, connection, particularly at network level. So, when the user puts a file on a network file system, this can be intercepted and compromised.

Or maybe when the user tries to access the credential, maybe the user can be redirected to different places. And we have, in fact, families, a whole family of attacks here, that allow to, well, exploit, wrongly set permission, authorization, some kind of node in the middle attacks, in traffic injection, of not properly secured or authorized traffic injection, and so on. Also, well, of course, we may have a specific shape of file format.

I mentioned the images, but the database case is a notable one, in which since we have structured data, this, the modification, can happen very much seamlessly. Because, and this, how can happen? The database may be inside a specific file, like, for example, in case of SQLite database. If I put that on a shared file system, the concept is always the same. It is stored on an accessible point, but, again, in a subtle way, the attacker changes some parts of the database, replace, for example, the content of some column, add, or even more interestingly, add permissions, user roles.

So, when it will be put and run, for example, and put online, then new roles can be used, new and original, not authorized roles, can be used to access the online database. because when I put my file containing the database in a shared folder, this has been sub... only slightly compromised, not in a very noticeable way. Again, nice from a clever perspective. And, well, again, if we know how the system, a specific target system works, this can be used in order, for example, to put before the legitimate access a component that works in a similar way of the original, of the legitimate one, but with some malicious component, like in the case of a Trojan horse.

For example, if we know the order and how Windows system, but any operating system is similar in this kind of behavior, where an application looks for a shared library, like a DLL in the case of Windows, then we might put another DLL in a place in which the system looks for it before allowing the compromise not of the whole application, but of a specific part that, for example, is used to interact with the system or used to provide some specific functionality, and then allow, again, a subtle compromise, again, due to a shared piece of the storage where anyone can write, for example, to install a legitimate application in this case.

and so, in general, this kind of family is the same and is, well, pretty, well, share, I mean, share the same principle. If you have a place in which you store some piece of your system, data, function, shared library, if you do that without verification, directly, direct verification, or undirect, meaning, if anyone can access that point with no verification, then this is a point in which you can be subject of malicious modification.

Okay? This is the overall rule. And to avoid this kind of problem, you should put the integrity check before and after, like, for example, our nice procedure of the hash at doing the hash at any time. This is a very common principle in any related digital forensic stuff. But also, depending on the case, try to restrict the access, like, for example, I write where I only can, I'm the only one that can access there, like using the 0600 kind of privilege there, or using more sophisticated access control list.

I avoid the access from anyone else of files that I created, or components that I'm using, or any part of data, or executable, that I need to interact to. I try to use as much as possible atomic operations, because even clever property set permission can be trespassed with lever compromission of the system. And then, if I have an atomic operation that write and create and use the data with no possible interruption, that I'm on the safe side, whenever it's possible.

Of course, this is not always possible. So, good to remember that avoiding shared storage, both from a network, but even at local level, is a way to prevent this kind of attack. from a computer forensic, from a digital forensic perspective, again, if there are, if I'm in front of a possible malicious infection, and I'm struggling to find where can be originated, in my case, this kind of permission, of wrongly set permission, or of shared the places used by anyone, is one of the first places in which I should look for. Questions?

Okay. I think that for today is enough. Tomorrow we will continue with this kind of attacking problems. I think it's for It's not only for projects that make it in catch, but it's really good. Okay? So to my point, I guess, I thought, to implement this tool. I have had my idea of doing existing security. I've seen about that on the course. And then, to talk, you know, you know, data in quel caso lì perché c'è anche l'inizio online però non ho capito se può sgrupparlo adesso prendo stoccolare
