

Okay, we can start for today. Questions from previous lesson, remarks, anything so far? Any doubts or something that you want to share about the case that I gave you last week? We will discuss it more, we will discuss it tomorrow since we will have more time for that. But anyway, did you make any thoughts or do you want to ask now? As I said, we will discuss it in detail tomorrow, but if you have questions that you want to use in order to, well, continue your analysis and hypothesis and investigation on that, which is material thoughts that we will share and dig into tomorrow, it is possible to make any question or clarification right now, if you want.

Just for my understanding, any of anyone make any thoughts on that during this week, explore the case, reflected on them, on the different phases, make any hypothesis, anything, or you did not have the time to do that. Yes, please. That's perfect, that's fine.

And after those assumption, did you elaborate any, well, forensic procedure, make any, you are allowed to do on the basis of your assumption, also create a possible timeline. Yeah, that's perfect. Yeah, that's perfect.

That's perfect. Yeah, yeah, that's perfect. But what I'm meaning here is from those assumption, for example, I was able to find this piece of evidence, then you went on saying, thanks to this evidence, I can conclude something like this conclusion.

Perfect, perfect, perfect. That's exactly the case. Of course, any of you can have different story, a different, well, let's say investigation, because we have essentially pretty abstract information here.

What is the game is try to develop in order to have the current mainframe, a realistic case. I have a realistic case here, but is not the only one with this set of possible starting information, okay? So it's very welcome if you develop another storyline, let's say, and if, of course, if it's logically connected, the evidence is something that, for example, might be reasonably find in our firewall logs, if you hypothesize it to have from there, or in Windows element, et cetera, or in each other documentation, et cetera, and is logically sound that you can conclude whatever you concluded, starting from what you hypothesized to be able to find, okay? An infinite amount of reasonable cases is possible starting from this one. What is the educational outcome is reflecting on what you can find, what you can, how you can approach the case and so on.

Not, of course, to find the correct solution for this case, since there are infinite, okay? Perfect, okay, and we will discuss this too. For today, I like to make some remarks and some, well, quick focus, I will say, on something that we already touched in our discussion last week, just in order to have, well, something more practically understandable, let's say. For example, I will mention some right blocker tools, some overall subtleties that you might find in the right blocking, and also we will discuss about the approach to perform the initial phases of an investigation, which is just a kind of organization and some further focus on something that we already touched from a high-level perspective.

So about right blocker tools, we discussed that is a critical tool that is fundamental to use it, to use a tool like this one in the initial phases of an investigation, because in principle, we need to have a complete understanding of how any bit of our evidences has been managed and focusing on the right blocker, the fact that we, in principle, should be sure that no bit has been corrupted during any transfer of our information. So this kind of tools, I like to put some pictures here just in order to have more clear how a right blocker is assembled. This is a pure hardware right blocker.

As you might notice, we have many possible ports in different formats, Ethernet, USB, and, well, firewall, a lot of possibilities. And we would like one input device and one output device, typically. One input hard drive, hard drive most of the time, and one output hard drive most of the time.

But we can have a USB drive, SSD, memory, even, and so on. Anything that need to be copied on another location. And this is for both the need to have a technically sound evidence, an evidence that has not been manipulated, and an admissible evidence that respect legal principles in order to, in the whole chain of manipulation, in order to not be successfully charged during the trial, or during an internal meeting to establish what happened during an incident.

And this is very subtle because it involves, of course, the data itself, meaning the very content of the data. For example, in a Word file, we have the content, the text inside a Word file, but it's subtle because we have also metadata. And the metadata are something that behind the scene is modified by normal operation of our normal tools, for example, operation at operating system level.

Okay, and well, moreover, yes, we need the technical soundness, the legal admissibility, and also this involves more or less indirectly even other nice properties of a forensics investigation, like the repeatability in the sense that if I repeat exactly the steps I performed in my analysis, also involving the movement of my bits, this should result in exactly the same outcome. Of course, if I introduce, even by chance, even unwillingly, some errors during my manipulation, the final outcome will differ. And it is not needed to differ in a large extent a completely different text or whatever, but just one single bit that invalidates, for example, a hash, and then the whole subsequent chain of operation is more than enough in order to make the whole analysis no longer valid.

Okay, and this is pretty, well, can be pretty frustrating if I modify due to the noise on a line, on my bus, whatever, the modification of just one bit that might be, of course, completely fine from the perspective of the semantic content of my file, nonetheless, is no longer admissible at the end of the chain that might involve weeks of analysis, is no longer valid if I retry, if I repeat my operation, and this might be, as I said, very, very frustrating. About threadlockers, I said we have hardware and, okay, no problem, no problem, don't worry. We may have hardware or software threadblockers, the preferable one are by far hardware threadblockers.

We have some exponents, some nice mention here of very famous one, like the Tableau series, we have a lot of them, very widespread, very well-known during legal procedure. They are de facto standard. Basically, we have many different size and shapes, T8i, T35, et cetera, et cetera, that may vary depending on the port that are supported.

If they are stand-alone or pure, let me say, threadblocker, et cetera, we detect, again, is a good, the second one, is a good exponent. We have more pure threadblockers here than stand-alone one. They are usually cheaper, but pretty, but very good from a technical perspective.

And so often we find them in more incorporate or private labs, okay? They, it's not exactly the correct term, they are slightly less reliable, but we are talking about very, very high standard, so it's not correct thinking at them, at the real tech ones as not reliable, okay? Just slightly less quality standard in respect of Tableau. That's why, and well, less, that's it. So if you are in a private lab and you need to get a bunch of threadblockers, they are perfectly fine at all.

Also Logicube, for instance, Duplicator, another well-known and very good, just to mention three of the most famous and widespread ones. It's good to mention the difference between pure, as I said, threadblockers and stand-alone. A stand-alone, a pure threadblocker, is something, well, this one, something that basically needs a smaller device that need an external intelligent device, an external laptop, for example, in order to make the copy does not work by itself, does not have an operating system inside, while a stand-alone threadblocker is something that can perform all the operation by itself.

Usually, this mount a specific version of a Linux operating system inside, properly configured, bug-free, of course, with a kernel without known bugs, at least, and minimal functionality in order to not put too much complexity inside and reduce the possibility of having bugs. And this kind of device, you can attach directly your two hard drives or your two type of storages, and they are capable to perform the copy by itself with no laptop, desk, or whatever smart device as support. And usually, they are huger, bigger than ours.

Pure threadblocker with this kind of dimension. Well, of course, we have software threadblockers, meaning what is a software threadblocker? Basically, a proper configuration of a proper operating system that can work nicely, not trying to reduce as much as possible the usage of collateral system calls that can modify metadata, proper mounting options that allow to have a read-only access to the device. And basically, that's it.

This can be in the form of a proper, from a user perspective, of a proper configuration of your operating system, or in the form of an application with administrator or root privileges that take the interaction with the operating system properly in order to avoid unwanted modification. Of course, in general, this is much less appreciated both from, well, slightly less from a technical perspective, but largely less from a legal perspective. Since in a court of justice, it's very appreciated that you use something that all the parties, also the counterpart, the opposite part in a trial, knows as error-free and reliable, and fully reliable.

And regarding this aspect, usually is having, well, in the documentation of your investigation, also the exact details of the user device and also put the statement, like for the acquisition, we use the Tableau T35 write blocker, is something that is appreciated and give some professionalism, some professional, some kind of professional look and feel to your documentation. Well, the documentation of what you used and also what you acquired, in the sense that the exact details of the device is another aspect that is very appreciated. Again, this pair with the fact that you must be able to repeat and result in the same outcome if you repeat the analysis.

And that might imply using exactly the same component, very, very simple. If I mentioned, I use the Tableau, Tableau, for example, T8i, or generically, a Tableau T for investigation, but even worse, a specific model to perform an analysis. And then I try as an opposite party to redo the same analysis, but using that model, but you mistakenly documented the model with another one because maybe in your lab, you have many of them and you did not have adequate care in documenting the exact write blocker.

And while I try, I realized that I connect, I cannot connect the device because for example, that very model does not have, I don't know, an Ethernet port. This make the whole, again, the whole chain no longer valid, okay? Because there is a clear error and I cannot repeat the operation. Okay, and this is a silly, but recurrent kind of error that you might find because you think, okay, it's not a problem.

More or less, we have all of them in the lab, all of them work very, very fine, et cetera, okay? But this is another kill in a trial. So, well, we need to document write blockers, but also all the involved device because we might have on the opposite, if I documented a USB pen drive and instead there is a kind of old type of drive, same problem. And so I need to document it in order to not make mistake.

And also I have a good amount of documentation that demonstrate what I used, meaning basically I made a lot of pictures of the different phases. This is something, again, very common and very important. Also mentioning and documenting how I connect my devices with my write blocking tools.

And this is both from the hardware and for the software perspective, all of them need to be meticulously documented. And I'm not mentioning here, but again, you have to hash, to compute an hash of your resulting outcome. Okay, nice, a nice table that remember you like, as you may see, the Tableau T8 does not have an interface for an either kind of hard drives or pretty, well, old, but still in use.

Here is just a table to remember that type and the fact that different write blocking, write blocker tools might have different interfaces and there are also software possibilities. Well, this is from a corporate legal perspective, even due to the fact that they asked for some funds in order to buy some of them and show you in class, but I, well, I did not successfully grant the funds. We will focus from academic perspective on the Linux part, but this is nicer because we will be able also to see the data of the interaction with the operating system, which is nice because it is allowed us to understand more detail, more in detail what we are doing.

So, nice trade off. Okay, some common errors here. Well, some of them may appear innocent, but they are, they might be not.

Like, for example, by error, plug your storage device directly in any kind of device you want to use for investigation because even, well, I'm meaning I plug it and oh no, it's an error. I unplug it immediately. Even this action might be enough because during the plugin of the storage, the operating system start to interact with it and start to modify metadata inside your device.

Okay, and so also this action is enough to modify the content, some content at least of your storage. So, and this might be a pitfall under the umbrella of wrong assumption of E of always using read-only interaction. Well, the misconfiguration of write blocker.

This is particularly true with software ones. In general, it's harder because you have not so many functionalities on a write blocker or even on a standalone one. Basically, you can, you are always read-only and mode and always, and basically you can start your acquisition or not.

There is a limited set of functionality that you may ask to a write blocker, even if standalone. While maybe much more subtle in case of a software write blocker. Here I have an example.

For example, if you are mounting a file system on under Linux operating system, you have the mount option that is also useful in order to understand some information about what you mounted, the history, some part of the file system history, what you can expect from the file system interaction or perspective, et cetera. Also, mount command line tool is used to mount a device inside your file system. And you have a nice option, which is minus O, same, okay, option pair O read-only, okay.

But this might not be enough because the operating system, even with this option set, might interact with some metadata. Again, the problem is basically always the same. So I need, for example, to explicitly say as an option, no load.





or no load flag because this avoids the loading replaying of the file system journal due to the after the operation of the mount okay and this avoids the manipulation of the metadata and this is just an example in general I need to understand very well and this might be very complex because I need to know many many details of how the operating system works to avoid any unwanted modification and that's why in a in a court of justice the pure software approach is very challenging and other red blockers are preferred by far well okay this basically says the hash is important basically the outcome here is try to perform your hashing operation after an imaging of your storage basically like an atomic operation good to have tools that allow at the same time this operation like vc3dd that the the forensic version of gd otherwise do that as soon as possible and better if you are in a in a very important condition use two different hashes two different hash algorithms in order to well be sure no error have been involved in in the process okay he already said that the important the importance of having a complete documentation of what we did model serial number firmware firmware version of course okay anything that allowed to identify without any kind of doubt the exact model we used well also considering update on the firmware if any okay we should also document mention the update history of our devices okay because as you as you should know different the same version with different updates might be subject to different bugs okay so very important oh yeah and this mentioned what i already said the fact that is good to reference inside your documentation the fact that you used some specific tool like something like this phrase digital evidence was acquired using this kind of tableau right blocker etc is a good is something appreciable in a kind of justice and well since many kind of standards ask for something like that and we have tools certified in under specific like the the tableau ones under specific standard this is even more appreciable okay and all what everything i mentioned is to obtain a forensical sound something that you can prove something that is technically sound something that can be used to repeat any step of your analysis is some is what you need to to withstand a rigorous legal scrutiny a legal challenge in the end okay yeah again something that i said but is important the visual reference meaning perform a lot of well document carefully your steps and prove that those are the involved step with photographs videos etc this kind of of documentation is often included in the photographs i mean or another evidence with with the videos is something that is usually included with your documentation with the legal documentation as a what is called standard operating procedures that what is a standard operating procedures a procedure according to the different standard in in a in a forensic investigation according well when i perform a forensic investigation usually i adopt i adopt a specific standard a specific flavor a specific customization variable of an existing one or directly an existing one and inside according to this standard i distill a step an interpretation that prescribe a set of steps that i need to perform in order to be compliant with with the standard this is standard operating procedure and so this kind of approach of documenting visually the steps of your of your investigation is typically part of a standard operating procedure meaning typically meaning according to many different forensic standards okay so maybe well usually from a pure technical perspective it's not it's not a very funny way to proceed in the sense that you perform a lot of boring action okay i have this laptop take a picture of it then i have this one okay i'm not able to read all the details and let me take a picture no it's not perfectly functioned okay i need to to take another one etc etc for all the device then i need to print the the the photo the photos etc and collect and add them to the to the documentation but well this is needed in order to prove all your all your action i'm sorry for that sometimes life may be very boring but question yes please um this one let me here okay yeah that's we have five let me see very probably is a kind of let me remember what i just mentioned i intend to well i think we can meaningfully consider that like an error and what i mentioned here what i meaning here is the the five step the workflow it is possible but now i do not remember that i when i create this slide i was mentioning a specific standard but honestly it's not very important five five i prefer five if you want to advocate four is fine if you defend it logically because in some standard there are four steps but yeah i mean for the question same concept here just some focus on that let me see yeah this is the correct set about the scene assessment and data source identification again is something that we already discussed and and explored but here we have some organization and some further discussion on on that as i said it's good to have good knowledge first of all it's good to devote a reasonable amount of time any time it is possible according to your specific investigation of your counterpart before starting the acquisition here is the meaning so good to use what is named open source intelligence for my information do you have this some knowledge of open source intelligence from other courses or by just by okay some of you already known but just as personal investigation right okay so not many of you has had this kind of knowledge so basically this is well this is a nice we we may have well we may have a curve a full curve some open source intelligence by the way and is um an evolving an evolving topic like for example well that basically involves the fact that you may find that you may find a lot of information from a specific target organization user role even device whatever from open sources outside that you can freely access if you are capable or if you are aware enough to find them and distill useful information well we have sources that allow to understand something related to domains like who is records who is services you can query dns servers and system in order to understand the status of a domain the history of the of a domain the location of a the physical location of a server in inside of a domain how long ago has been registered and thanks to this kind of information you can understand if a specific name more or less likely can be involved in a in a crime yes who is here the mean is dns record that you can query with who is system do you know who is okay yeah some of you yes but it's pretty simple just to show you for example we have who is service that we can find here for example okay and well we may understand more details on what is the service etc etc but for example we might understand something more on specific domains okay like for example well we may have we may not have immediately usable result but we might have information that we might more that we might want to refine and also that can provide information about possible attacks like like type squatting etc dns record here we have a lot more information like for example the presence of a mail server inside the domain the possible name servers etc okay this kind of information related to the IP position let's say of well a domain and this might be part of our investigation again versus a specific host or a specific node on internet okay we have we can start from a name that we absolutely have no clue about what might be and then we start to dig into the dns system in order to understand some more details from this for example I can understand where is placed this kind of well I didn't call okay this one I prefer the public one fine okay and thanks to that yes I might have some information on the on the specific location of an IP okay and well as you have seen I did that in a few seconds okay and we may have tools there are tools that collect all this kind of information of many possible searches now we are just having an academic an educational example of what we can do okay and this is for domain for nodes on internet we may have the same kind of research on a specific person on a specific user for example querying social media activity querying uh social media related to work well am I digging to facebook or x or linkedin etc etc of course this approach is now a lot less effective than how much was a couple of years ago because a lot of services became well restricted due to payment etc etc at some point you may embed in your tool a lot of interaction through api to these different um social media for example and ask for a lot of information in an automatic way for for that well that's how it works well by the way also the the general the widespread social media are according to many researches declining the number of user is now starting to decrease and then this also will likely I don't know for that but may decrease the effectiveness of of the research inside inside them and also the user are decreasing and also the content of normal users is decreasing meaning that now the influencer payment advertising etc is very widespread in many social media okay so the usefulness from the perspective of open source intelligence is decreasing as well and that's what I mean what I meant saying that is an evolving field but still very very interesting in any case it is likely that we might find some useful information and that can be used in the approach of sources of possible identification sources if for example we we have found that a suspect frequently use a specific place to work well two three specific places to work with this laptop then we can go there in order to acquire evidences okay very basic but well no not not rocket science but common sense behavior that's why it's important to try to acquire this kind of of information also is important to understand the kind of technology like for example we may ask depending on the context we may ask to the system administrator of a suspect what kind of system is using or what kind of system are provided by a corporation by a business unit we may use some kind of our common sense tools like and map that you should know in order to understand what is used by a specific network node etc etc in order to try to understand what is the exact setup of our counterpart and well I say many times put like to put the image with a camera because it's pretty much relevant and the well the like in a risk analysis the principle is similar like in a risk analysis process in which we the first step is to establish the perimeter of of the analysis the same should be done in in the case of a forensic investigation that's both from a physical and a logical perspective physically what what are the the like the example I used a minute ago like the the working place of of a suspect or the building the rooms the physical device the physical ports the physical well apparatus that has been have been used by by the suspect and also from the logical perspective what kind of uh data flow with with what devices might likely or surely been involved that been used by by the suspect for example if it's connected on our specific wireless network like we now are connected many of us in a clue to the polito wi-fi okay so for example the perimeter of an investigation on us might involve the router of the in the gateways of the wi-fi the polito wi-fi okay in order to to find out the kind of data that have been exchanged of course those might be encrypted but we might find out but still we might find out some relevant data like for example the IP of the of a destination okay well maybe in that case we want to establish a virtual private network with a legitimate node in order to avoid also the comprehension of who is our final destination okay so as you may see we may have multiple layers of protection from one side and multiple layers of investigation from from the other about the logical environment again when we start okay we set up we identify the perimeter then we need to accommodate what kind of devices are there we may start and what kind of context we are approaching remember that we may have a different context with different counterparts with different suspect with different level of skill of the suspect and this might change significantly our approach to the investigation like for example if we can use the environment of the suspect in order to understand some details just after the seizure of of the device like for example okay you are under arrest let me check something and I start to understand the network connection active right or if he is not skilled or if he or she is skilled maybe I should not do this operation because my input there some countermeasure that can alter the information there okay but in general and this my in general I need to acquire this kind of information most of the time it's useful to acquire for example the parameters of the network environments the connection the active connection the previous connection etc and so depending on the type of suspect I might try to connect the administrator or not maybe the suspect is the is the owner of an organization then the system administrator might be a kind of a malicious collaborator with the owner of the organization okay and so in that case maybe I should not contact the system administrator or on the other hand maybe the suspect is damaging an organization then the system administrator is willing to cooperate fully with the investigation okay so according to the different contexts the approach is might be different but what is important is that in general what is true is that I as a parameter I should choose the most possible quick





...to recover all the evidences, because this is all basically true. Proportionally with the time is the degradation of an evidence before I acquired it and start to manage with no altering tools. Some examples of where that allocation might be, basically those can be local, easy, old flag of computer forensics, or remote most of the time.

That might be simple if remote means still under full control of a specific organization. Much more complex in case of cloud, meaning that is under control of a multinational entity that might be not very much willing to cooperate or that is under a different jurisdiction or, well, basically has many other stuff to do in respect of cooperating with an investigation. And so this might be very challenging. 

That's, for example, another case in which it's good to try to acquire the live system and try to acquire immediately the possible evidences, the possible sources of information on the cloud before, for example, the user can interrupt the communication and no longer provide the possibility to access to the cloud information, for example, because both try to, with a not authorized attempt to access the cloud with no provider cooperation, with neither provider cooperation nor suspect cooperation might be challenging and finally even not possible, even with powerful technical means. And so this is a subtle case in which it is very important to choose carefully how to approach the acquisition. Oh, well, something that we mentioned, any peripheral attached, and what is nice, we, of course, we mentioned the network, well, network attached, pendrive, pendrive are pretty obvious, closed, or even still connected to a device. 

Network attached to storage are more subtle, but even printers and scanners might be funny enough, because, for example, they might still have in memory last prints or scanned documents and so on. And so literally they can split out a final and significant evidence from the memory. Well, and printers and scanners are a funny example, but the rule here is try to understand all the possible, even if unusual, peripheral attached or that perform any kind of interaction during last hours or days, depending on the suspect, on the context of the case. 

For example, I think I did not mention a printer in our use case, in our sample use case of the shockwave case, but a printer may well be a source of information if, for example, that guy printed any report on, I don't know, how to copy secrets or information on changing work or on the contract with the present organization, what are the details, etc. It might be something relevant in this case. Well, and of course, this is a theoretical approach. 

In practice, you need to have something. This is a recurrent concept that is very important and something that you can query, not in the sense of SQL query, but that you can inspect quickly on, not necessarily, but maybe even information and database, that you can inspect quickly in order to find out the information. So you should structure your information in any mean that is useful for you in order to have the information ready at hand, in order to examine and communicate to other guys in your team, and so on. 

What I mean here, like, for example, you may draw a network topology diagram that involves all your components, all the components of the suspect, all the nodes that have been used, that allow reflection, to understand if something, if some node is missing there, if, well, there is some strange missing part. If I have, for example, one day in which the usual connection for the whole rest of the mount has been used, anomalies might be easy to be found in the traffic flow. If you have an exact and clear and useful map of that, as well as a kind of map of the assets, the components that the user has, that the suspect has used, both from a high-level perspective, component of a network, and from low-level details like serial numbers, MAC addresses, etc.

In this case, we may well have created a database, a normal database with all this kind of information inside, and we may have our SQL query, if we want that, in order to get the exact component to, well, to recall details and to check for correlation. So, having something that is visually and practically examinable is very relevant and something that you need to do from the very beginning, even from the first phase of identification, in order to see in the identification phase if something might be missing from the sources that you identified. Again, examining possible, finding out possible anomalies in your map and in your inventory.

When we identify the sources, we should prioritize and understand the status, again, something that we mentioned, the ephemeral state of them. For sure, we should start from the more ephemeral ones, in order to avoid as much as possible modification. We already mentioned the volatility of central memory, which is the first important part, as well as with the background operation that may modify something on our storage without being noticed, like underlying cloud syncing, like modification of temporary files. 

For example, when I open a document in Word, but this is common in many applications, there are some temporary files that are created in order to maintain the status of the modified file of the application and also in order to recover the file in case of unexpected crash of the application itself. And those can provide, again, a lot of useful information, and we may compose this knowledge with the fact that, for example, temporary files, even if deleted, might still be found thanks to analysis of deleted but not erased information. As you mostly know, I already mentioned that, if we delete a file, only the space of that file is marked as deleted, but the information itself is still there, until the three sectors have been overwritten by other information. 

This is true also for temporary files. So, we might be able to find out the temporary files trying to recover deleted ones. So, we can compose our knowledge of forensic investigation merging different theoretical kinds of investigations in the same sequence in order to enrich the result of any of them. 

We may find out information in an erased, in a deleted temporary file that has still information in there. And, well, if we are talking about mechanism of file system, also there are hidden information in there, like in the slack space, in reserved sectors, and so on. And here, a kind of resume of the workflow in order to have it in a pre-analysis means open source intelligence, and then, and so on, in order to have a possible approach. 

This is, again, not the only one, but it's something that is useful to build upon your specific approach, because this forensic investigation has still, well, it's a science, technical reliability, but still has a lot of possibility to custom according to your expertise and your preference. So, you can still modify your workflow in any phases according to what's your preference, and this is, I think, a nice aspect to remember that I suggest you to start to enrich even in this course. Okay, questions? For today, I think we're done. 

Yes.

