Okay, I think we can start. Welcome, for today we will have not one but two presentations, so a very rich meeting for today. We will start with a nice exploration for specific case of data carving, file carving in particular, in a specific field related to multimediality. So, a nice specific case that allows us to understand what may happen in specific fields. We have a kind of overall view about how to approach the field, but of course, as you can imagine, in any field we have specificities, peculiarities that need to be understood in order to run a real investigation.

So, today's homework allows us to understand some specificity in a specific field. So, is a nice contribution, in my view, about what might happen in a real case. So, thank you. The floor is yours. Hello everyone. Maybe it's just which an author? I think it works. Hello everyone. I hope it works. This room is not perfect. Yes. So, as Professor Adziani anticipated, I am going to be talking today about file carving techniques for video recovery. And as we all know from this course, file carving refers to the process of recovering files from these images without having knowledge or information regarding the file system.

I am specifically focusing on video files because due to their structure, the recovery of video files poses some limitations when compared to other video formats. During this study, I'm going to compare different carving approaches, namely the signature-based carving and structural-aware carving, and the corresponding tools that implement such approaches. Starting with the outline, I'm first going to give an overview of the video file structure in order for us to understand what we are recovering. Then I will move on to defining the problems that exist with this kind of carding of this file. I'm going to describe two different carving techniques, the experimental setup, and the result that I have obtained by performing such experiments. And from those results, I will be going to conclusions. Starting with the MP4 file structure, actually, when we specify the file type for video, such as MP4 API, we are just describing the container, which in itself contains the video and the output streams.

However, the actual video and the output streams are represented by the codec, which will be the encoding and decoding algorithm for both of the streams. Therefore, in containers such as an MP4 container, different codecs can reside. And the codec is not specifically tied to a container on itself, and the codec is not specifically tied to a container on itself. Therefore, the MP4 format is arranged into boxes or anons, which in themselves contain raw data, or they contain only boxes and anons. And thus forming a hierarchy structure. Three of these atoms are the most important ones that must be present in the MP4 files, which are namely the FTYP, the MOOV, and the MDAT. The FTYP, or the file type box, is the atom which describes the file type. Whereas the moving box is one of the most important atoms, as it contains all the metadata, which is necessary, is necessary to understand where the video or audio samples are stored in the blob of data that contains them interchangeably. It is needed in order to understand how to encode and decode them, meaning it contains information about the codecs, as well as timing when each sample is going to be played.

Whereas, such raw data of video or output stream resides in the media data box, which is a separate atom that contains such information in an encoded form. And therefore, the information which is needed to be understood in order to play the frames correctly can be found in the sample tables. I know this is a bit of an overview, and I invite you to look more into this in a report where I explain the process of understanding where a sample resides. But for the moment, I'm going to skip this and move on to a more practical topic. So I mentioned the video codecs, which is the encoding and encoding algorithm, which also performs the compression and decompression frames. As such, for these algorithms, they rely on the similarities between frames in order to compress them and only store the relevant different information of one frame for the other.

As such, we have three different types of frames, I frames, B frames and B frames. I frames are also known as key frames because they are standalone frames, meaning that they are encoded and decoded only on the information that they have for themselves without relying on the information of any of the other frames. Whereas B frames and B frames are encoded based on information of other frames as well. The difference between the two is that P frames only rely on the information of previous ones. Whereas B frames rely on both previous frames and future ones. And another file structure, which is also interesting to look at, is the ABI of Neo files, which also are composed of chunks and each chunk is differentiated by four character code. We have several chunks, but here we can mention the RIF one, which contains itself the HDRL list and the MOVR list.

The HDRL is kind of similar to what I mentioned for the MP4 videos when I said the MOV add-on contained metadata. Here the HDRL contains the metadata about encoding and playback of the video on the audio stream. Whereas the actual raw data resides in the MOV list, which stores the streams encoded. Now, what is the problem with carving video files? Well, first, as I said, the structure of such files has a separation of metadata from the raw data that is actually played. Therefore, during carving, we need to ensure that both metadata and the raw data is recovered in order for the raw data to have meaning and to actually be played. Even if the raw data is perfectly intact, it's not corrupted.

If the metadata is missing or corrupt, then the playback of the video will not function correctly. Another issue that occurs in modern systems is file fragmentation, which, as we know, when the file is deleted, the space occupied by that file is marked as available for other files to be written to it. And if the next file to be written requires a size which is larger than that released by the first file, then it will be fragmented into multiple spaces. Therefore, these tools that perform carving also need to understand that parts of the same file may reside at different parts of the disk. Therefore, they need to gather them in order to recover a single final file. Another issue is the tonal dependency. When I explained with the frames, the I frames are the key frames, while the P frames and the B frames rely on the former ones. Therefore, even if we recover only the P frames or B frames without the information of the corresponding I frame, they cannot be correctly played in the end.

Now moving on to farm carving techniques, as I mentioned, I'm exploring two different strategies, namely signature-based carving and structure-aware carving. With signature-based carving, the tools that perform this follow an approach of detecting well-known signatures, which typically mark the beginning of different types of files. Upon meeting these signatures, these tools then move on by reading sequentially, until they either see a well-known folder signature, or when they reach a threshold size that they consider to be the maximum size for that file time. Therefore, these types of tools implementing this kind of approach do not understand the internal file structure, but they just merely linearly scan the disk image in order to find files that match the signatures. On the other hand, with structure-aware carving, the tools that implement this approach are a bit more intelligent, I would say.

They understand the hierarchical format of the file, and they are also able to reconstruct missing pieces of metadata, if they are corrupted or fragmented, by inferring based on patterns that they see during the recovery of the file. They are able to understand that some prints are undecodable, meaning also unplayable, and if they detect that such thing has happened, they are able to effectively speak to the next keyframes, in order to recover as much of the information as possible. Some of these tools are Photorep, Scalpool, and Planet Carver. The first two ones are signature-based, whereas the Planet Carver implements a structure-aware approach. Photorep and Scalpool, being signature-based, of course familiar with the principles that I have explained, meaning that they try to detect well-known signatures in order to recover the files.

But Scalpool compared to Photorep is more flexible, because it accepts from the user to configure the signature to be searched for, related to a specific file type, as well as the maximum size that the tool is going to be looking for when recovering data related to a specific file type. Scalpool operates in two phases. In the first phase, it creates a database of the locations of the well-known signatures, and during the second one, then it recovers the files based on the size that was configured by the user. On the other hand, Planet Carver implementing a structure-aware approach actually understands how the file is structured, its container hierarchy, and therefore it is also able to reconstruct missing metadata, such as the sample tables, which were the ones responsible for determining how the frames will be decoded and how they will be played.

Therefore, such a tool is also able, or at least attempts to respond well to also fragmented files, which may be residing on this. So, in order to more practically understand how these tools operated, I created an experimental setup, which was composed of ten different videos that contained different properties in terms of the paradigm, the MP4 API, different codex, different resolutions, frames per second, size, and GOP size. GOP refers to a group of pictures, and it's actually tied to the keyframes and the P and B frames. For example, when we see that there is a GOP size of 60, it means that between two consecutive keyframes, there are 60 other P or B frames.

Having a GOP size, which is small, for example, a number 12 that I have had on my dataset, means that the file occupies a larger site because it will be, during the decompression, it will be compressed to a not so small of a file, but it means that it will be more efficient, even if the file is corrupted in terms of the reconstruction file. To this dataset, I performed some modifications to attempt to recreate corrupted scenarios, according to three different levels, mentioning mild, moderate, and severe. For the mild level, the files were split in half, inserting a fragment in the middle, in which 5%, the size of the file, was written as corrupted data by writing random data in that place. For the moderate level of severity, the file was split by two fragments, resulting in three different portions of the file, and in those two fragments, size of 50% of the file size was written with random data.

For the severe level of corruption, the file was split into four different segments, and 30% of the file size was overwritten with random data to create a more corrupted scenario. All these datasets were actually run under different tools, and for each of the corruption layers, I created one disk image, meaning that for the three layers, mild, moderate, and severe, I had one disk image, and I also input all the original videos in another disk image, to have it as a baseline for comparison. So all the four different disk images were input into the three different tools, and results in terms of videos recovered are presented here in the table.

As you can see, Photorex did not recover a large number of videos, it did not detect any MP4 videos, but only one API in all the scenarios. Scalpable had results varied from five to five to six videos for both MP4 and API files, whereas Planet Carver had the largest variations starting from one to twelve videos related to API. And there is actually an explanation for this variability in the number of videos that were detected. To actually assess how well the videos that were recovered are, I used several metrics, namely the playable frame ratio, PSNR, SSIM, and structural score. To clarify, the playable frame ratio actually measures how many of the recovered frames are actually decodable and then playable, whereas the structural score measures how many of the important or the necessary answer boxes are present in the recovered file.

Starting with the results that I obtained in Photorex. As I said, it only was able to recover one API file in all of the four different scenarios. And as we may expect, the metrics, the playable ratio, PSNR, and SSIM, as the level of corruption increased, they were decreasing, indicating that the recovery of videos that were recovered were corrupted. But something that is particular is that the structural score has remained one in all the scenarios. This has happened because when comparing the recovered file with the original one, I saw that they matched perfectly in size. So Photorex was able to recover videos that had exactly the same size as the original file by following its internal heuristics. This could be also reasoned by saying that the video that was recovered was actually the first one input on the disk image.

And therefore, seeing that is the first signature that Photorex found, it was able to recover only that one. Whereas, for the AP4 videos, which did not recover any, I believe by analyzing the structure of the AP4 videos that I had on my data set, they all differed in the fourth byte. They had different, in one, in some of the videos, they had the different 2-0 hexa code, in the other one they had the 1-C, in the other one they had the 1-A. And since Photorex was not configurable from a user's perspective, as Carville was, maybe I believe that the internal, that internal data set of Photorex did not account for the variations in the signatures of the MP4 files, and that could have been the reason why it did not detect any of them. Looking at Scalable, here again, we see that actually the number of videos that are, was recovered was larger than presented in the table, and they are all documented on my report, but here I've got only some more particular ones.

One thing that was immediately visible, was that Scalable always performed over-carving, meaning that all the recovered files had the maximum size that was input during the configuration. Given that the files made the data set, raised from 1 megabyte up to 60 megabytes, and the size that I figured on Scalable was around 65 megabytes for API videos, and 70 for MP4 videos, a sample always matched that size, therefore we can see that this has had an impact on the structural store, because within the same recovered file, there were instances of multiple headers coming from other files that were also resident on this. Here we can also take a look at something interesting, which is that GOP sensitivity, so the group of pictures, size also had an impact, because the files that had a lower GOP, meaning that they were less compressed, but they had more keep, actually displayed higher values for the metrics, such as the PSNR and the SSIM, whereas the other videos which had higher values, for example I had videos with a value of 250 for the GOP size, those videos showed more severe corruption than the other ones.

And lastly, looking at the Planet Harbor results, which actually is a proprietary tool, and I only used it under a free license, and did not allow to export the videos so that I could actually look at how they were structured. I analyzed them based on the size of videos that were outputted, the timing it took to output those, as well as the RAM utilization. And I discovered that something that was immediately evident was that it had very high resource requirements. It took several seconds to get the results from the previous two tools, but it took almost half an hour for each of the scenarios with Planet Harbor. It's used from 6.5 to 6.7 gigabytes of RAM, and the number of videos that it actually recovered were variable based on the severity corruption level.

Why is that? That is actually because, as I previously said, this tool is able to understand which parts of the video files are corrupted, and that they can carve past them. Therefore, for example, in the mild level, when the corruption occurred in the middle of the video, Planet Harbor was actually able to reproduce two different playable and recovered videos corresponding to the uncorrupted segments of the original file. And therefore, as the number, as the number, as the level of severity of corruption increased, the number of videos also increased in the app. Here I have put a better representation of the differences between the results produced by the files, by the tools. And to compare the results, I would say that signature-based approaches, followed by software and scalable tools, was actually seemed to be susceptible to fragmentation.

It could not overcome frame corruption, which was introduced in the dataset, whereas for the structure-aware tools such as Planet Carver, it was actually able to perform well under the cases of severe corruption. It captured all the usable information, meaning it captured all frames that were left uncorrupted, which resulted in the higher number of files. Of course, we had the trade-off, which I mentioned, in terms of resource utilization requirements. To conclude, I would say that in a forensic scenario, which video files need to be carved, starting with SpotDirect, that is not a very advisable tool to be used, given the results that it could use. On another hand, the choice between Scalable or Planet Carver can be done based on the resources that you have, as well as the time you have to receive those videos.

For example, if you have abundant storage, meaning that you can afford to carve videos using Scalable, you can obtain results in a shorter amount of time. However, because Scalable always overcards, you may look into Planet Carver when you have the abundant RAM possibility, which produces more videos, but which captures more information from the original input, which resides on this image. And that was all. And that was all. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Okay, questions from the audience. I have a question, in fact. How about the performance of the different tools to recover?

They are the same, they are long, they are quick. Can you comment on the performance in terms of time? Yes. So as you can see on the table here, it took almost 14 seconds, so around 14 seconds for Scalable recovery. It took around 9 seconds, but these two are comparable because it could also be that the time that it took more for Scalable to be based on other activities performed on the PC. Whereas for Planet Carver, the time data was actually much larger than the one taken by the previous tools. Yeah. I would also like to comment that actually the Planet Carver experimentation was performed on a virtual machine because, as I said, it does not allow to export files, but it allows previewing the videos only on Windows 10. Therefore, I had Windows 10 virtual machine in which I tested the disk images for Planet Carver.

That could be a reason, but, however, it remains a large amount of time when compared to the previous tools that I mentioned. Yeah. Yeah. About that, can you hypothesize, probably you did not, and it is perfectly fine, dig into the order of magnitude that might be introduced by the virtual machine. I mean, if you can hypothesize this, guess if it's 10 times, 2 times, 100 times slower than a physical access. Actually, my virtual machine, I gave it 5 CPU cores. I did, I believe, good enough metrics, so I was expecting it to not pose such a huge overhead based on being a virtual machine. And therefore, if I had to quantify, it would be probably around 10 times, but not more.

Okay. Good. Yes. Other questions, curiosity remarks? If not, thank you very much for your presentation. I'd like to thank you. Thank you. Well, let me commend that. This is a very nice work that you did that allows us to understand a lot of details of what can happen in a real investigation. We have the theoretical overview. Okay. We do data carving. That's fine. But in practice, we may have very significant differences on the type of data carving. For example, very nice, the contextual information of structure aware, a cover that try to understand, thanks to the metadata, the internal organization of the file, what can be recovered or not.

This is a very practical and relevant point in a real forensic investigation. So thank you again to describe that to us. Okay. I think we may have just since we set up five minutes break, and then I will run my lesson. And then at the end, we will have, and we are going to resume the recording of our lesson.

Okay. Now I'll touch something that we already touched in a different level, which is operating system forensics, which is a kind of superset of many different sub approaches that has their own dignity in the field of digital forensics. Like, for example, file system forensics. As an overall field, the operating system forensics means basically the analysis of data stored and processed, managed, computed, elaborated in any way by an operating system directly or indirectly. Through all the middleware infrastructures and so on.

So according to this definition, you can easily see that we have a lot of different and complex operations and steps involved in operating system forensics. Some of them, as I mentioned, some of them we already touched, like the fine system forensics, since interaction with the file at local system is something very usual, very common. And so this is considered a sub branch of operating system forensics. And well, I do not repeat myself, we have all the nice operations we already discussed and done in previous lessons. So metadata analysis of the empty space in a pretty obvious sense, also the work, the homework we have seen in the first part of this lesson is, can fall under the umbrella of operating system forensics.

And we have analysis of the events that may happen at the local level, the event log forensics is another branch that basically means try to understand what kind of events happened on a system. Thanks to the analysis of the logs inside a system, thanks to the analysis of the logs inside a system. This might mean configuration files, this might mean log files, of course, this might mean specific systems, specific structures like the registry inside the window system. This might involve the analysis of specific files that help a system to keep track of the actions performed by applications and by users.

This might mean log files, like we already have the pre-fetch in Windows, like we already encountered that, the pre-fetch in Windows, in our sample scenario we had in the first phases of this course. This might mean log files that basically allow to understand what, when, how has been executed in a Windows system or the LNK files that instead keep track of the access of files again in a Windows system. But of course we have, I put there, I put there for a kind sort of part condition, the history files inside a Linux or Mac OS X system, the F log file for the tracks of who logged into a system and so on. And so on, the, the, the, the, the, the, uh, special, uh, file system part, uh, under approach, uh, folder under approach directory that keep track of the, uh, configuration of a system and, uh, of many parameters of the system of the operating system itself.

This kind of, uh, this kind of, uh, this kind of analysis allow to, as I said, understand user activities, application activities, uh, software configuration, um, sometime, well, connected device. Ah, and also, uh, and also, uh, this allow us to understand, uh, also remote aspects, uh, since, uh, for example, the establishment of sockets, of network connections, uh, of, uh, services, listening on, uh, on the network and behavior of these, uh, service, uh, inside my node is, uh, uh, uh, somehow mirrored in, uh, into specific, uh, log files. So also, uh, um, hypothesis on, uh, what happened on the network can be derived from the analysis of what inside, uh, a node without considering the acquisition of, uh, uh, network traffic.

So also, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, important one that has, again, a dignity like the file system forensics on its own, because allow, as you may imagine, a deep understanding of what's going on on a system, and memory forensics may result in information-relevant conclusions by itself, but also may inform and enrich the analysis in other digital forensics subfields, like, for example, as you may imagine, we can find out accessing the memory content, for example, cryptographic key to access encrypted storage, encrypted data that would be otherwise inaccessible, thanks to modern cryptography.

And, well, we may understand, we may find out traces of malicious behavior, finding inconsistencies between internal memory structures among themselves, and also from memory structures and other data, for example, storage, temporary files, and so on. Well, this is a nice and subtle subfield of operating system forensics, and I think we will expand some words on that later. Let me mention the fact that this is a rich and extended and extensive field of investigation, so we have plenty of different tools, tools from simple ones, well, complex but special purpose ones, like exit tools that we know, in order to access metadata, to investigate logs, to investigate on files, conditions, and, well, possible manipulation, to acquisition of the memory content. When we want to acquire the memory content, usually we do not access the memory during the running life of a system, but instead we try to acquire what is named a memory dump of the central memory, which is an image of the memory, in order to be capable to analyze in a kind of post-mortem condition, in a, well, with a static snapshot of the memory itself. For doing that, we have frameworks that allow the analysis of the very content of the memory, like a very famous one is the volatility framework, nowadays at version 3, the third version of the framework, even if it is still in use, the version 2 that is pretty much different from the internal behavior, but in some cases is still used, for example, to acquire legacy context. And of course, apart to, well, kind of multimodal tools like autopsy that allow to gather many different fields of investigation in order to analyze them in a single point, allowing to gather information from file system forensics, network forensics, email forensics, somehow social media forensics, and so on, even in a multi-user condition, when we have many investigators involved in a single case that analyze and gather different informations investigations in different contexts, all related to the same investigation. This kind of tools are nowadays pretty important, since the investigation is complex, is run by many users, many investigators, so a way to correlate, to put together the data and allow for a more easy reconstruction of the timeline are pretty much required.

Well, autopsy is a nice tool from a didactical educational perspective, since as a modular project with tens of different modules that allow specific purpose investigation and allow for a centralized coordination between the information for a systematic and unified timeline reconstruction. So this is, from an educational perspective, a nice tool. But from a performance perspective, and yeah, performance from many points of view, perspective is not the best option. In practice, it's not very much used due to uh, well, some instability, uh, by itself, uh, not, uh, not, uh, edge level performance, uh, is slow for some kind of, uh, of performance.

And, uh, well, that's why basically, it's not, uh, uh, really much, very much used in, uh, in, uh, real investigation. But from a conceptual point of view, it is, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, a very good, uh, um, sample of what you can encounter in a real investigation. A modular infrastructure that allows different, uh, types of type of investigation that can gather and help the reconstruction of a unified timeline. Um, and in case of a, uh, and I mentioned it here in the operating system forensics, exactly because operating system forensics involve a lot of different types of analysis and information gathered from different types of evidences. Just a kind of example of what we may be pretty typical, but we have plenty of different cases investigation inside the field of operating system forensics. For example, if we are looking for malware traces, a rootkit infection on a specific device, we should try to identify discrepancies between different sources, like different log places, where we can find that in Unix-like systems, in the unified system log daemon, the syslog, that collects many different kinds of logs with timestamped information that might be set up to send the logs on a different machine in a properly hardened system, as well as other specific system level logs, like the auth.log that I mentioned before, that allow to understand who, but not only in terms of user, but also in terms of application, is interacting with the system. And we have the takeaway here is that we need to find out the centralized point that collects information on the life of the system, and we should correlate them in in order to identify negative cases. Most of the time this kind of malware try to conceal the traces, then delete some part of the logs or the file, some file totally. And then this kind of missing part is a nice indicator of compromise, a nice red flag in this kind of investigation. I mentioned the different log files, the first two are inside Unix system, but of course we have different in syntax, but the equivalent in semantics, a way to identify the the events happening in the system, like the windows have an viewer that interact with the the window logs to show what kind of event, the list of events, events, the date of events happened on the system. And well, as well as the log, the centralized point analysis, well, in the same vein, we may have centralized information that can be provided by specific tools.

We already encountered, we already encountered, for example, the message UT, command line of UT, allow us to see all the logs, well, not all the logs, but a huge amount of logs related to the kernel activity. Again, this is an important point in order to identify an advanced malware activity, because in many cases, we try to work at kernel level. So we need to understand, to identify discrepancies in events that happened at kernel level. And we may create, we may analyze the work of specific processes, analyzing the statistics on them, the running time, the running time, the memory consumption, the CPU usage.

And in that case, we should be aware of the normal behavior of this kind of these processes in order to identify discrepancies from a statistical perspective or from a structural perspective. For example, there are, in many operating systems, many structures that connect processes to other processes through data structures. And the misbehavior, a malicious infection, many times creates some inconsistencies in this structure, most of the time in the attempt to conceal, to hide the traces of the malicious underlying work. So the analysis process of process characteristics and behavior is something that might enlighten a lot on the presence of the model.

For example, S-trace is a nice tool that allows the traces of the system call used by an application. It's just an example that allows us to understand what is the interaction of the application with the underlying operating system. system, again, in an attempt from the investigator perspective, to understand the presence of something that is not correctly working. But, of course, I don't know how much obvious it is. For me, it's a kind of acquired knowledge. In case of a compromise, in particular, in case of a modern malware, that in many cases might be fileless, meaning does not touch the storage shape, does not try to put anything on the storage in order to avoid an easy detection of its work. In particular, in those cases, but in many cases, the analysis of the memory can be a kind of final word on the identification of a malware, because remember that the memory is something that any process needs to use in a small or large way with minimal traces, but it is strictly required. This is something that no application can avoid, or at least I'm not aware of any case in which this can be avoided. In that case, to approach memory analysis, we need to do two, conceptually speaking, steps. The memory dump, the acquisition of the memory content, and here I put a very widespread example from the Linux field, the LIME framework, which is an acronym of Linux memory structure, and when we have the dump of the memory, we need something that is capable to understand what's inside this snapshot. And we have the nice point that now we have a snapshot, so it's no longer capable. Well, there are some experiences in which I try to rerun the context associated to a memory dump, but if I'm going just to perform a static analysis of that, I do not run any risk of further infection, so I can proceed with a very in-deep analysis of the tool. For that, we have the already mentioned framework volatility, which is a nice one.

This is not specific to Linux context, but can analyze any well-known, not necessarily in an easy way, but can analyze snapshots from many different systems, snapshots of memory from many different systems, OS X, Windows, Linux, of course, given the proper configuration. We have volatility version 2, version 3, and we have also quite used, but not so much as volatility, the recall, which is a kind of fork from the volatility framework that again is useful for memory analysis. Well, in case of a rootkit investigation, this might be, in a real case, complemented. This is just to give you the whole picture. Of course, this needs to be complemented by the network activity. Most of the time, the malware will try to replicate itself, to exfiltrate the data, to ask for orders or listen for orders from the command and control center and so on. So we'll leave traces on the network. From the operating system perspective, we might try to find out the statistics on the network usage at the local level, through command like Netstat, Socket Statistic, SS, LSOF, etc. But honestly, in many cases, this will be not enough. And we need also kind of behavioral analysis that acquire network traffic, in order to understand if an advanced and very high malware, for example, inside an application is present on a system. And here we have many advanced concepts when we try to find out an advanced malware, like the virtual machine detection, detection, and how to prevent this kind of aspects for the analysis of malware, which is a subtle and increasingly complex point in an investigation, in the analysis of a malicious artifact like a rootkit one.

So this is to give you a picture of what is inside our operating system forensics. What I'd like to focus here in this course, a little more, is the memory forensics apart, which is, well, a very important, from historical perspective, and also nowadays, still important in almost any investigation, whenever possible, is a kind of goldmine of information. Of course, as you may imagine, is a complicated one, because the volatility of data here is at maximum level, both physically and logically, because from a physical perspective, the content of the RAM, of the volatile memory, persists only for for a few seconds, very few minutes, in case of sophisticated instrument, in case of loss of power supply, in absence of power supply. And from a logical perspective, is continuously managed, removed, substituted, due to the execution of the system operation at operating system or application level.

And, well, from the other side, it is very relevant, because that allows the extraction of the processes. And this can be, there can be attempts to conceal what kind of processes are running in memory, but they are still there. So, to some extent, is not possible. There can be attempts, but it is not possible to avoid the presence of signals, of traces, of a malicious activity in volatile memory, into the RAM. This is, again, something that no even sophisticated application can achieve. So, if we are good enough in analyzing the content of the memory, we may find out the traces, the real traces, the real content of what we are looking for. And, yeah, for the rest, I already said that. The first point is to dump the memory. Well, there are attempts to try to interact with the central memory, with the volatile memory, during a running process, but this is a kind of very risky action. We may have deletion, loss of data, loss of replicability, loss of consistency due to the action, even normal action of the system. So, the good procedure, unless we are in a very strange case where we cannot dump the memory. But this would be useful only to acquire, to identify, let me say, sources of evidence, because everything is so volatile and fragile that very hardly can be used to demonstrate anything that cannot say anything that will not suffer for counter arguments of possible modification, compromission of the very content. So, usually, the first step, when we want to perform a memory analysis, is the creation of a snapshot of the random access memory, thanks to a tool that allows that we have many different tools. And, well, I put here some kind of poetical form to say that in that way we will be able to get even fainting traces of content that will be useful in our analysis.

examples of data that we may find in memory that we likely will not be capable to find out in any different places. For example, transient data like encryption keys, present state of the system, presently open files, network connections, processes that are running in this very moment, as well as you may see the malware, which is running maybe primarily or even only in memory. And well, after we did the jump and acquire our nice snapshot, that we may specialize in specific cases of our analysis. This might depend on the kind of investigation we are performing. If we do not suspect any malicious infection, for example, we may avoid the identification, the attempt to identify injected code, concealed behavior. We may avoid the usage of specific tools that allow for this kind of investigation, and instead we might try just to understand if there is any corruption, any accidental corruption of the content having a kind of a consistency check between the different structures of the processes. We may have iNodes, for example, in Unix system.

We may have trees that describe the hierarchy of the processes in memory, who launched the coup, and for example, we can identify a child process without a parent process. That may be a kind of strange thing, and then we can identify in that way what is malfunctioning, even accidentally. And of course, the memory analysis may well find out traces of malicious action. The injection of code, which is something that nowadays many times happens only at memory level, is something that can be identified only thanks to this kind of analysis.

What we can find out, for example, we can find out processes that run without a parent. This again, of course, we need further information, but this might well be a kind of indication, indicator of compromise. Why? For example, a child without a parent might be an indication of a malware that run, launched by the loader of this malware and the loader, after the loading of the malicious or this co-malicious content, will terminate itself since no longer valid, for example. And this is a kind of examination, for example. And this is a kind of examination at process level that we can find.

We might identify discrepancies. We might identify discrepancies, modification in the content of libraries in respect of what is the golden status or reference status of that application. And this may allow to identify process level of that application. And this may allow to identify processes subject to injection. We may identify data structures related to, again, processes different from the expected ones. Again, this may be a sign of infection, like, for example, modified system SDC host executable in Windows, but the concept is the same for any kind of application or system daemons. And, well, and there are tools that allow for automatic kind of investigation in this respect, like, for example, a plugin of volatility, like Malfind, that perform, for example, unusual memory, memory, meaning the unusual content in well-established memory regions that should contain different stuffs, and that might be a kind of signature for infection, just to give you an example.

All of this kind of memory can be done, as well as consistency checked between what is running in memory and what is stored, what is configured inside the configuration files of the system. Again, again, from the analysis of the system. Again, from the analysis of the memory and the cross-correlation with the logs, the configuration files, we may find, again, the discrepancies in respect of what is normal behavior. And, well, we may interact with event log analysis, we may interact with network forensics, in order to find out the content of network connection.

We may, using access to the memory directly or indirectly, find out the content of encrypted network connection. Because, finally, in central memory, in volatile memory, they will need to be modified, they will be decrypted, they will need to be managed, used for the computation of the data. Then, will result in being plain text in RAM, or indirectly, we might just find out the encryption keys or decryption keys to access the very content of encrypted network exchanges. And, well, this might fall also into credential recovery, but this might be extended to any sort of credential, passwords, used, past phrases, used to derive a key, for example.

For example, passwords, used to access systems, tokens, used to authenticate or to authorize the access to content. As you may see, we have pretty much any kind of possible information. And, well, and, of course, under, and directly interesting in a digital forensic investigation, we may have information on system malfunctions, crash of the system, log system altered, not responsive, slow, whatever, that finally will have a kernel panic, will damp the memory.

And this is a nice source of information from a debugging perspective, but also suitable for investigation in case the crash is not by accident, but instead, for example, by infection. Or even in case, in case, in some cases, even in the understanding that a crash happened by accident will be a result in an investigation, for example, to identify that the suspect is not the actual actor that broke the crash. Okay? By exploiting a vulnerability, okay? By exploiting a vulnerability, for example, this also is something that might happen. That might happen. And, well, in nowadays investigation, a recurring problem, the volume of data, as well as the storage, also the memory content increased.

And nowadays, as a problem of, basically, resources, we may have main memory dams, and so a huge requirement in terms of analysis, exploration of the memory, and then this can take time. And this is a real practical problem in an investigation. We have anti-forensic techniques for the memory analysis. We have the malware is getting more and more complex. Sometimes I mention how sophisticated and fascinating is this piece of software. And, well, my use techniques like encryption of part of the content that may be decrypted only in some condition.

So, even if I acquire the RAM, I just get some parts of the malware for my analysis, because some part of that might still be encrypted. Some, okay, because at least some pieces are unavoidable, as I said. But this surface of analysis might be reduced due to, well, auto-encryption techniques that modern malware can use. Of course, you may have some countermeasures to that, in the sense that modern detection techniques might find out pieces of memory that should not be encrypted, that instead are encrypted. So, even a kind of entropy-level analysis of the central memory might raise a red flag about the presence of a malware.

So, also the auto-encryption techniques should be moderated in some cases. Well, it's not a final solution as an anti-forensic technique, from an anti-forensic perspective. And, well, other, and this is just one example of evaluating techniques, other techniques involve active identification of the context in which a malware is executed. For example, for the execution at the bug level, the system is configured in a peculiar way that allows, for example, for interruption of the execution. It's suitable to stop the execution at certain checkpoints, the execution of an application, in order to find out what is the status at that very point of the application.

But this implies some configuration on, for example, environment variables of the context in which the application is executed. And some, as well, the same, if you execute something in a sandbox, in a confined virtual machine, just to avoid the spread of an infection of a malware. Modern malware, again, that sandbox, that system has specific configuration parameters. Modern malware can identify that in order to avoid the execution of some behavior. Most of the time, this is more related to dynamic analysis. So, not very related to memory forensics by itself.

But sometimes this couples with decryption of some part. Imagine when I have a malware with 50% of the malware itself encrypted and should be provoked. The condition in which the malware is tempted to decrypt part of itself in order to execute some functionality. But the malware might beforehand check if the condition of the context is likely a sandbox, a virtual machine, and then prevent the normal behavior. The decrypting action in order to avoid the possibility to acquire the decrypted part of the malware. So, fascinating and complex point of analysis.

And well, getting back to the memory damp, also, since the volatility and the complexity of the setup in order to acquire the damp of a memory, this might be questioned for admissibility in a code. Because basically, most of the time, what we can do? We can install a specific tool on the target machine during the active life of the system, and then acquire the memory and then put the memory on some specific storage. So, we have many different steps. Installation, dump of the memory, and storage of the damped image. All of them might be subject because, due to the volatility property of the context, all of them might be subject to doubtful points and to possible minimal, small, but possibly significant modification on the content.

And this can be challenged in a court of justice. Well, just to give you the full picture. To access memory, we may have, we may use normal system management administrator level, like, from Linux, from GNU system, that may access some specific region of memory, but, yeah, might give you information, but it's not a forensic tool, it's more to help the understanding of the content of the memory, in case of normal functioning of a system, of an application.

This is mostly to give you the understanding that even if a tool is capable to access the memory, the memory, this might be not very relevant from a digital forensic investigation, like the case of GGB. More interesting, but from the very content, but since, since, provoked by a specific condition, not again, not very relevant for a digital investigation, unless happened in a time that by itself is relevant for an investigation, in that case, we may thank our good luck and access it, is the damp of the memory after a catastrophic crash of the system.

What is the purpose here is to give the administrator of the system the full picture of what happened from a crashy, from a buggy perspective, in order to understand what was the final or what were the final conditions that created the crash. There are instruments that allow to create this kind of damp, and they are nice from a forensic perspective, many of them are nice, because they try to create a perfect image of the memory content before the final end of the system. So they are created for debugging purposes, but they usually are sound also from a forensic perspective.

Nice, but instead we have specific forensic tools for digital forensic investigation. We have one very first, I put here some of them, these are not the only possible ones, these are basically for Unix-like system, we have analogous tools in case of Windows, we have Lime, FMEM, AVML, basically, the point is the creation, is the access of the memory, trying to perform the acquisition of the content of the memory as fast as possible, in order to have a picture of that, and offload, transfer that to a site, transfer that to a safe place.

Basically, what is exploited in terms of Linux is the access of, is the obtained through a kernel module that access a specific, a special purpose file, that is a direct access, a direct access, using the file metaphor, using the file metaphor, to the central memory, acquire this memory, maybe with the same tool, or with the bit-by-bit copy of different tools. This is, for example, the case of FMEM, that is a tool that by itself creates a special device file to access raw, the content of the memory, and then we can cooperate with a DD-like tool, DD itself, or DD with forensic capabilities, like the ones we already encountered, in order to copy the content of the memory to a specific location, a USB, a foreign component.

component. Some of these devices allow for, due to the cloud presence nowadays, for the transfer of the content of the memory to the cloud. Like, for example, this one allows the creation of a Microsoft Cloud object, transferred through an HTTP connection, an HTTP PUT method in particular, or allow transfer directly through the network to another location. For example, LIME allows two components, basically, one running on the system that is object to memory acquisition, and one running on a digital forensic workstation, that is really to acquire the content of the volatile memory in the device target of investigation.

Also, there is, well, the acquisition is raw, so we have the raw content of the memory, plus some metadata that characterizes the acquisition itself. So we have, for example, the LIME format that contains the raw content of the memory, plus some nice metadata for the creation, for the analysis of the memory that will be performed by another tool. So a few words on LIME, since Linux memory extractor, since it is a very widespread tool used, is an open source one, which is nice from a forensic understanding of the tool, in order to see no unexpected behavior is inside the application itself, as the form of a kernel module, so you need to load it with usual INS mode operation at the kernel level.

And a nice point that corroborates the picture that I depicted you with one instance of LIME on the target of investigation, one on the forensic workstation, one acquire the content and then extract memory data and send it over the network to the forensic workstation that will be used for the analysis. This is a nice point, a desirable point, in order to avoid as much as possible interaction with the target device, as you may imagine. Okay, so a nice one. Well, even if in principle LIME allow for the storage to a local file, most of the time is not desirable, in some cases might be required or even desirable.

Basically, acquire the content in slots and write them to specify the output destination, as I said, maybe a file or network connection through, for example, a netcat, a socket connection. The LIME format used by this framework does not alter the memory content and in particular consider a specific ordering of bytes, in order to be easily understood without ambiguities introduced by the specific architecture in which the system is run.

This implies, if you think a little, that the LIME itself, given the architecture I described, LIME running on the target of investigation should be compiled, considering the system running on the target of investigation, the version of the kernel in particular, the possible specificities of the target machine, because a concept you consider is that when you access the memory, the very shape of the memory is dependent on the specific version of the operating system, the data structures to characterize the processes, the hierarchies, the size of system processes, everything is dependent on the specific version.

So, in order to have a correct memory acquisition, you need to compile LIME according to the system running on the target of investigation, the very version of the kernel. And, well, about volatility, this is the nice framework we might consider as a kind of sample of the memory acquisition, memory analysis, sorry. I think it would be nice to dedicate some more time on that.

So, I think this is a nice point in which, stop for today, for my part, we will have a more nice description, discussion on volatility. And I think we may have also a case of usage of volatility in an homework that will be presented on next Tuesday. So, I think it's nice to have a kind of, well, focus on that, on the next lesson. For today, I stop here myself, we might have a five minutes break, and then see the final homework for today. Okay, just for the record, we are now going to have the final presentation of today's lesson.

I do not repeat the parameters of success that you already shown with your report. Also, your classmate will be able to see, but for the moment, concentrate on the presentation. Thank you, it's yours. So, good afternoon to everyone. Today, I'm going to show you my homework in which I investigate about the evolution of digital forensics in a better way. I analyze some case studies and practical examples in order to understand how the digital traces in any kind of source, that, starting from, for example, mobile devices from the computer themselves, but also from a car can help in a court. So, this is the agenda of today. There are a lot of chapters, and starting from two Italy cases, in which I focus better on the file system forensics that we already seen with our professor.

And then I move to another kind of example, which is the anchor chat. And then automatic forensics, and finally how the AI can use it to help the digital forensics world. So, starting from the Glasgow case, I think that I can go fast in this part, because the professor Baciago already talked a lot about this case. So, just some overview of the case about the murder of Chirapoggi that happened in August of 2007, and by his, at the moment, Alberto Stasi. This is a simplified timeline, and in which we can see that there is, we can say, a 23 window in which the murder could be happened at that time. The problem is that this timeline is reconstructed and based on some artifacts that were, that were used from the police, but they, before that.

But the problem was that there is no any kind, that there was not any kind of channel custody at the time. So, the acquisition was done on the computer itself without producing a copy, without analyzing very well what was inside the computer. So, all the artifacts that were obtained were manipulated from the, from themselves. And so, these, we can say, this proof cannot be allowed in the court. And maybe thanks to some modern frameworks, such as the NIST one or the ANSY one, for the best practice, today we have a different result. There are also, in these weeks, some development of the case, but there are not a lot of information about them, and I do not insert them in the homework. So, moving on to the next case, it is still another Italian case, it is the Merdick-Kercher case. And on our review of the case, in this case, we have that, the murder of Merdick-Kercher.

Merdick-Kercher, and at the time, the two, the, the, the, the accusation went, went, went against Rafael Soledic and Amanda Knox. In this, in this, in this part, I focused on the Rafael Soledic laptop, because there are a lot of online elements that allow me to understand better the, the analysis performed on that computer, started from the principal study report, and, and the report from a professor, the professor Milani, which analyzed the principal study report and said what, what went, went wrong with these, during these, during the, during the analysis of the, of these artifacts. So, in this case, we can say that, well, we have a better channel custody of the, of the laptop, but the problem here was the, about the analysis. The first example that the professor put in, in, in his report was this, this example on, on the access of, of, of a file that, if I open a file today, and then I will open a, this file tomorrow, then the last access will be tomorrow.

So, the problem is that, that a lot of these artifacts were not completed, because, because, because, because the computer stay active for, for days, starting from the November 1st to the November 5th, and, and there is, there was also another interaction with the computer on the, on the November 5th. These are some artifacts that, that the professor Milani, used in his report, in order to show that, these artifacts were not present in the report of the, of the Polizia Postale, and, from the example, the, the anime that, that fellow was, was watching that night. Sorry. Sorry. Everyone is, uh, capable to hear what he's saying. Okay. Sorry. Sorry. And, uh, another thing is that, uh, the BLC records that, uh, appear in the report of the Polizia Postale were not, uh, the, the real one, but, uh, they, uh, invented them, probably.

But, um, there are not, uh, any evidence about that. And, uh, another important thing that they not, do not mention in the report of the Polizia Postale is the, uh, keyboard, uh, idle. Which is important that the, uh, it demonstrates that, uh, during all the night, the keyboard was active. That, obviously, doesn't mean that there, uh, there was an human presence on the computer. But, uh, it, uh, this means that the computer was active during the night. And, uh, also, he, he showed that, uh, the tool used, so, in case, have a different, uh, logs, uh, uh, timestamps than, for example, in this case, iTunes. Uh, because, uh, in case, uh, take the, as the last access, the, uh, the, the, the first time that one, that, for example, I start a song while the, uh, iTunes, uh, take us, uh, as the last, uh, as the last log, uh, when I interrupt, uh, the music. And so, uh, a lot of, uh, this is the reconstruction made by the BLC Postale, which is, uh, uh, uh, incomplete. Because, uh, it goes from the 6th of the day of the 1st November to the day of the, uh, to the 8 a.m. to the day of the, you know, of November.

So, uh, uh, as we said before, some, uh, of, uh, examples that the professor, uh, put in this report, we conclude that, uh, well, yeah, we have, uh, now, uh, a new evidence. But it is complete. It doesn't, it doesn't demonstrate anything, uh, with respect of, uh, or, or what we need to, uh, to use, uh, in order to help, uh, Raffaele at Indecourt. Uh, so, uh, now, uh, there is the practical part of, uh, this first chapter in which I simulate a laboratory in which I acquire, uh, a snapshot of, uh, an Ubuntu image. Uh, an Ubuntu image and then analyze it, uh, in, uh, uh, Fedora environment. I use the Fedora because, uh, in the Ubuntu I got, uh, I think that it is a bug that, uh, uh, because there are, there, uh, were, uh, already a logical volume inside the Ubuntu. And, uh, uh, the slot kit was not able to, uh, recognize the real one than, uh, uh, the, the other one of the other disk that, uh, was trying to analyze.

So, uh, uh, what, uh, I have done is, uh, to, uh, do the snapshot of, uh, of the, of the image of Ubuntu and then convert it through this KEMU tool because it was in, uh, uh, KEMU, KEMU copy and write, uh, format. And I create, uh, so the raw copy in order to respect also, uh, you know, custody. Then I mount it as a loop, uh, or better. But first I, uh, uh, analyze the, uh, the partition present inside, uh, the disk, uh, through MMLS in which there was three partitions. The first, uh, two, the first was about the FE5 system. The second was about the boot, uh, the boot part. And then the third one, which was the bigger, um, was not recognized at first because it was the logical volume. Inside the logical volume, there was the, the first system of the, of the snapshot. So, uh, what I've done then is to mount, uh, the, the image of the device, uh, found the partition, activate the logical volume, uh, the logical volume and then starting to navigate, uh, uh, through, uh, the, um, uh, the image, uh, thanks to the slot kit, uh, that we, that is, uh, basically the, the command line tools of autopsy, which allow to, uh, navigate to file systems.

And also, uh, we will see that that me to reconstruct the, um, the timeline because this was the main goal of, of my laboratory. So once I was inside, uh, my system, I start to, uh, uh, find all the possible artifacts that can help me to reconstruct the timeline. Starting from the desktop and all the text file, the command line, and also the browser history. In order to do that, uh, I use, uh, first the FLS command to generate the, um, the body file. And then with the Mac time, I retrieved all the, all the timestamps, all, uh, of all the artifacts present in the desktop. Then, um, I found, uh, the browser history inside the snap folder in, um, uh, all that was not in the desktop, but, uh, inside the home. And, uh, and, uh, and then thanks to a SQL query, I retrieved also, uh, the, the chronological order, order of the, of the history from Firefox.

And then I found also the common, uh, history. In this case for the common one, I have to, uh, the bash history was not enough because, uh, it, it doesn't have any kind of information about the, the last tax, the last usage of that tool. So I have to, uh, to enter to the, uh, how to log, uh, uh, uh, the, the, to that out log, and then have to map each, each, each, each common use to, uh, the corresponding, uh, timestamp. And then I merge everything to retrieve the final timeline. I have also done a, uh, different forensic tampering experiment, which is pretty similar for what concerned that, uh, the build of the timeline, but, uh, it is a different, uh, uh, because I. I, I've done a timestamp. So I modify, uh, the timestamp of some files. And, uh, I align also some folder in order to, uh, uh, to create a fake, uh, uh, a fake timeline. And, uh, finally, I also use, uh, also create, uh, some fake log in order to, um, as I said before, uh, create, uh, a real version of the, of the dampering experiment.

Um, so with this experiment, uh, we. See the reconstruction of a timeline and, uh, and, uh, uh, also the reconstruction, but how much is easier by using tools simply command as touch and T, uh, to reconstruct, uh, to create, um, problem for this reconstruction. So, uh, now we can move to the other chapter. Uh, in this case, uh, the K in this case, we have, uh, uh, anchor chat. Uh, so since now we talk about, uh, this device, uh, analysis post the acquiring, uh, a copy of a device. Now we are talking about, uh, big infrastructure, uh, about, uh, message exchange in real time. So we need an, uh, real, uh, time acquisition. So, but what is anchor chat? Anchor chat are these phones, which, with the unhardened operating system. And, uh, uh, this phone is, this phone, uh, by single architecture, we can notice that, uh, the, the plain text, uh, exists only, uh, when the message is created. Uh, when the message is created and, uh, uh, when the, uh, before the encryption, after the decryption.

But, uh, as we can see, there is a central control plan, which, um, manage everything. Uh, so manage the routing. Uh, we, we have the bound, the bound server, but the most important thing is that we have also the update mechanism, which is trusted, uh, a priority by then devices. So once the French authorities find this central server, they send, according to Europe, uh, uh, an analysis. Uh, uh, a trusted update plus an implant, which is a malware or better, a spyware. And then these, these, these, uh, the update mechanism distributed these, uh, kind of malware to, uh, to the endpoint devices. Um, so now the authority were able to read the plain text before, uh, the encryption after the encryption. So it was, uh, more an interception than a forensic analysis, but, uh, it lead to, uh, this kind of operation lead to over, uh, over, uh, to acquiring over 150 million of, uh, conversation and, uh, among 60,000 users and over 66,000 of arrests.

And, uh, but this kind of, uh, uh, uh, all case lead to some doubts according to the UK court. In fact, uh, uh, uh, uh, I said before that, uh, it was like an, uh, an, um, an interception. It's because, uh, uh, there were a lot of doubts from, from a French point of view, starting from the general custody, for example. So all these messages were transmitted, stored, preserved, and meaning also, uh, this implant, we don't know if it was authorized or better. It was not authorized. We don't know anything about, um, uh, about this implant that was, uh, uh, implemented. So it is still, uh, an open point from a forensic point of view. And in this case, uh, the practical part is related to the simulation of, uh, this case in which I create two users, uh, Alice and Bob, which are communicating to, through, uh, these, uh, central server. And, uh, uh, uh, I, uh, I expect the police and I send to them, uh, uh, an update, which there, there is also, there are the, an implant, uh, an implant, which is not a malware because I'm not, uh, uh, authorized to create a malware and do these kind of experiments.

But, uh, once they send this, this implant, I was, then was able to, to read the plain text before the encryption, after the encryption. So moving to the next chapter, which, which is the automotive part. And I choose automotive because, uh, um, there are really bigger computer, but, uh, better we, they are, uh, uh, are, uh, a distributed system, which produce a lot of, of signals, uh, starting from the movement, the GPS, the infotainment activity, also the paired phones and Bluetooth connection. So, and another thing that I, I, I think that it is, uh, useful to put here is that, uh, the duality of a car, because, uh, uh, a car can be used also for a physical evidence and, uh, uh, for a digital evidence. So, first of all, for what concerns the acquisition workflow, there is the part of the, uh, physical, uh, acquisition. So, uh, the photos, the, if there are some DNA, DNA fingerprint, fingerprints or something like that.

And once there is all the first, the first part about, uh, the initial documentation, we can start with, to put in charge of our, our car, start to the, start the analysis on it. And, uh, thanks to some tools, for example, for the infotainment years, yesterday we see magnet for the cloud, but there is also magnet for the vehicle, uh, for, uh, some can tools to analyze the canvas of the car, or, um, and also mobile forensic tool for what concerns, uh, the Bluetooth connection. And the problem is that, uh, uh, I found only these tools and they are well, well, described it better in the, in the homework, but, uh, a lot of these tools are, uh, uh, comes from the manufacturer. So it is difficult to retrieve a lot of information about them. And then finally, uh, as the other, uh, artifacts, uh, um, this, we need a correlation with other, uh, proofs in order to give them, uh, a well, uh, an importance during investigation. So the case in this case analyzed is the, is the, the ones about Alex Mordone, which was the, the mother of his, uh, son and wife.

And I think it is also a pretty famous case. And they choose this and, uh, I choose this because, uh, um, there is the complete timeline, uh, or at least the, the copy of the, the real timeline online with all the logs of the car, but also the, of the phone with all the tools to use of them. In this case, they use the general model, which are the, uh, these infotainment tool. Uh, uh, so they asked to the, to his company to retrieve the information about the, the car of that night. And this is, uh, a small reconstruction of the, of the, of the car that night. And it is smaller. This is so small because, uh, the, the, the full timeline was like 30 pages. And I think that it is not necessary to put the whole here, but just the part about the automotive, which allowed to, uh, retrieve the information about the car and the movement of the, of the, of Alex Mordone at night. But it's obvious that, uh, without the other information that were retrieved, uh, so the, the, the, the correlation with the, uh, the phone data, uh, uh, it was impossible to give the full, uh, the full accusation against steam.

And also in this case, uh, there is a practical example. And then in which I, uh, try to, uh, uh, create, uh, a current environment. Uh, but, uh, how to do that by using socket can, uh, framework on Linux and create three, uh, become, uh, interfaces. And, uh, each of them, if, if, if each of them have a, uh, uh, specific, uh, role, for example, we can zero was for the infotainment. The second was for the, uh, uh, for the, uh, uh, for the, uh, uh, for the electrical part. And the third one for the, the second one for the, uh, diagnostic part. And then thanks to Python can, which is a library on Python. I start to send some signals to these, uh, interfaces. And, uh, finally, um, I retrieve all of this information. And thanks to another script, I create a sort of, uh, uh, uh, report about, uh, what happened during, uh, this simulation. So now moving to the, uh, final chapter of my homework, which is the AI in forensic, uh, in digital forensic.

Um, as we said before, uh, with, uh, by the professor that, uh, memory dump, I have a lot of data collected. And in order to simplify the work of the examiner, this, the AI could be used. For example, it can allow to, uh, reduce the amount of data. It can allow to, it can, uh, do a detection classification of different files. Uh, and the extraction can support the timeline. Um, and a practical example, uh, is, uh, the application that, uh, the AI with OSINT, which, um, uh, allow, uh, to, um, make OSINT more stronger than it is. So, uh, for example, by, uh, by using entity extraction plus the OSINT, we are able to retrieve a lot of information by different social profile of different users. Or, um, we are also able to retrieve some, uh, geological position, uh, from, uh, different, uh, user location that we can find online.

But, uh, as we know, uh, yeah, I can lead to some risk. And, uh, following the risky, uh, uh, the NISTI risk management and also the AI act. So the more we use the AI, the more we have to put effort on, uh, it's, uh, uh, protection. We have to, uh, we have, uh, uh, I create a sort of, uh, um, risk management for, for the AI. So for them, we have, for example, the problem of the model opacity that can be, uh, that can be, uh, that can be, um, that can be, um, mitigated by using domain tools, validation, rewards, audit logs, or, uh, uh, the automation bias. That can be used to be mitigated by domain review, interpretation, and then collaboration, and, uh, uh, lack of responsibility. Uh, so we have to do a well-documented, uh, uh, uh, paper to, in which we document all the record, uh, version settings, and input touches that we gave to the AI.

So in, uh, for the workflow, it's similar to the others, so we give an input to the AI, we, um, um, uh, wait for the AI to purchase this input, and then with the output, there is a decision criteria on when we can use it. For example, we can use it for internal triage, or we can use it as a corporation element with the others, or it can use it for a finance statement, but it is not, but it is usually avoided since it can lead to some risk. To some risk, as we will see, um, uh, in a few moments, uh, in the case of Robert Twilliams, in which, in this case, the AI, uh, played a crucial role because, uh, the police, um, uh, give all the, um, of the case to the AI, and then the AI found, uh, uh, so there was, uh, a threat, um, a threat, yes, and, uh, uh, uh, cause of facial recognition, uh, systems, uh, uh, through different, uh, cameras, uh, Robert Twilliams was accused to, uh, to be, uh, the theft of, uh, of a local, uh, the problem was that, uh, uh, according also to the, uh, NISTI, uh, facial recognition, um, uh, because of, uh, some inputs, uh, that are low quality, or, uh, uh, uh, between themselves, there can be, uh, some, uh, misclassification about, uh, about them.

And, uh, another case in which the AI, uh, instead was useful was, is the, uh, the child sexual harassment, uh, sexual abuse material, and which the AI can help to, uh, organize, uh, this, uh, large amount of file and identify if there are unknown file and, uh, mark them as, uh, um, as, uh, that need a revision from the police. So they are used as, uh, uh, a support instead, uh, uh, uh, uh, another person, uh, so finally, in order to give, uh, a recap of what I said before, these are some forensic lessons to learn from each case, starting from the Garlasco, so that, uh, need the general custody maintained from them to Meredith Kercher, where, uh, metadata need a better, uh, inspection to the Anchorage Act about the, uh, legal use of the acquisition method to the modern forensics that can be used also in community investigation, and finally, to the AI, that can be used as, uh, a powerful tool, but, uh, only if these, uh, manage, uh, well. So I think that this is all. Thank you for your attention, and, uh, if you don't have any questions, I will. Questions? Well, um, I'd like to hear from you if you can discuss, uh, for each of the different points in more detail, what, uh, I mean, for your examination of Garlasco, Meredith Turch, Incrociat, etc., for each of, uh, for each of, uh, the different chapters of your work. If you reflect and would like to share what was, uh, the most interesting part, uh, the difficulties, uh, of your work, um, well, any subtleties there.

Yeah. If, uh, would like to share your personal experience on that, for each case, take your time, and, uh, if you... So for each case, I have to say what was the most difficult part? If you want, yes, but also the most, uh... Exciting. Yeah, exactly. No, really, really, really. I'd like to, to, if you share a little more your personal experience in your work, the allies, the takeaway, the funny part, whatever, about your personal experience, for each case, for each subchapter. So, I think that, uh, starting from the Garlasco, I think that, uh, I have nothing to say, we already seen it a lot with the Professor Baciago, and it is really famous, so nothing too much funnier. Okay, sorry. But it was funnier the part of Merdick Catcher, for sure, because, uh, all the analysis were wrong during the investigation. Nice. And analyzing all the reports, uh, which were, like, 50 pages about the Professor Milani, uh, probably anything went well during that night, and, uh, the acquisition was completely, uh, useless, in my opinion.

And, uh, for Anchorage at the live acquisition, um, it was also interesting to see another kind of usage of forensics, because it is not real forensics, but it is interception, as before. So, it was funnier, yes, but maybe, uh, I would like to put another case, but I will not about, uh, how, um, the police is able, for example, to, um, to, uh, to, uh, to fool the encryption. Maybe this was, uh, this could be another case, if there are in the face search, and there are some cases like that, I think that they are interesting. And, uh, for sure, the more, the most interesting part is the automotive part. Okay. Because there are a lot of things that, uh, analyzed, starting from the, yes, the signal of the car, but, uh, the thing was the correlation with the, the other proofs that, uh, that are used in investigation.

So, I like this triangulation, triangulation of the, of the elements that can be used. And, uh, also the part about the eye was interesting, but, uh, I think that, uh, we will see it, uh, in, uh, in the few, in, in the next years more. Yeah, I guess so. Um, about the automotive part, how is, how is possible, how is difficult to correlate the different signals? Did you have chance to go in some details there? You did a lot of work in, in many, in many, parts, in different scopes. I'm wondering if you had time because, well, automotive is a really interesting point, uh, in the sense that has a lot of peculiarities from a digital forensic perspective, but given time constraint, we will not go into any detail. So, if you had chance to go into details and do you think there is something relevant to share about how to collect, how to identify, how to analyze, how to present even the data in that specific case, I was very happy to hear your point of view.

So, as I said before, for the acquisition was a real particular moment for a car because it is easier that we power on a car and then all of the signal can disappear, can change. so this part was we must put a lot of care about it in this part and all the signals that come from a car usually have also no significance, so have no meaning. Also, in the example that I made, I generate a lot of signals, but a lot of this signal maybe doesn't exist or we are not to give a meaning to the signal. so the correlation is that I think that is important not only the timestamp but also but it is a concept that is presented in each case the acquisition method so the channel custody of the vehicles in this case is the most important thing which I think I can put more care in all the workflow.

Okay, that's it. Meanwhile, you can feel free to well ask questions if some appear in your mind in order to well exploit the experience of your of your classmate otherwise I have other questions of course so maybe you may also help your your classmate if you ask questions I'm curious about the experiments did you follow a kind of similar pattern in setting up the different experiments or any of them required a different approach a different setup for the first two and the automotive part for the first two you mean Garlasco and Kersh no the practical part of this chapter so for the practical part I think that we are talking about the practical part that we done so the yes yes so for the lab of the acquisition of copy and automotive part the chain of custody is pretty the same so the copy and then analyze on the copy okay while for the part it was a real-time acquisition so there were not a chain of custody as it was said by the UK court there was not any kind of chain of custody at that moment so it was practically legal but it was considered legit by the court interesting this may be my depends on the differences on juridical system did you explore that because it was treated as an interception not as a frenzy okay I see nice okay and for the rest of the experiment so also the cases themselves well the last have no kind of something common with the other but Merdick Kirch and they tried to do a chain of custody but it is still nothing with the other one and Alex Murdoch case was as I said in the introduction of the forensic there was first the part the physical part of the position of the car and then analysis of all these logs and the correlation with the other signals that they acquired during investigation and for the two cases of the eye well the first is Robert Williams they just take the output of the eye and put it a person in jail and the other one it's easier that way and the other one is just a classification so the eye cannot so there is not a real channel in that sense okay interesting interesting aspects okay final chance to ask question to your yes please nice okay for the record just because from remote what what is the criteria of selection of the different topic presented here basically my homework starts for analyzing just two cases so they got lasco and mary the catcher then the professor vaciago explained the case so I have to find something else to help my investigation so I think that I need some at the time something more big to investigate so infrastructure like angry jet where there was a lot of user connected and then I another big system in which there are a lot of signal send our automotive part and finally the eye is because it will be used in the future more than today sure and I think it is important also to give a chapter to it are you satisfied perfect so well and this allowed me to well how to say that the choice has been done due to well heuristics on what might be significant useful interesting and this is fine but also and this is even more fine in my perspective using as a criterion your interest your passion in that as I can witness due to the exchange we had in the development of this case so I think this is a very important point in well in digital forensics but also in modern world to follow what really moves you if you want to dig into to passionately explore and then explain the concept behind well a scientific topic so I will conclude with applause for that and I think if not for the question for today we are done we'll see next week on Friday you will have Professor Gacciago from United States and have a nice rest of the week listen to Rame that is sick here you will be sure to you have a little you have to you have to let you have a little to you have one I have to have you have one two you have
