Okay, as usual, any question from previous lesson or, well, anything, let's say. Yes, please. Tomorrow there will be a lesson. Lesson. Tomorrow there will be a lesson. Well, about lab, I published the schedule of them on the portal. So maybe I can go quickly to that point. Let me see. Yeah, here we are. And, well, I identified as a tentative schedule, well, we know, last Wednesday, then not this week, but the next week, Wednesday. And then mostly at the end of the course, 20th of May and the very last week, 3rd of June.

Well, about this one, 29th, I think it's mostly fixed, but I may have, well, in case of complexity, according to the schedule. By the way, I already tried to take into consideration the problems, the issue overlapping that some of you mentioned to me. And so I tried to, to have this schedule balancing all the different instances. But, again, there are a number of, of, well, difficulties in these days. Given the fact that I tried to have it on Wednesday, you may still let me know in order to see if there can be a, well, a minimum, minimal change in this, in this schedule.

Okay, for, for, for you students here in, in the lab, yes, in the room, is this, do you see any issue with this schedule? It's pretty possible from your point of view. I see that there are no specific remarks, so at the moment we may have this as a kind of final schedule, but we will, we may have another round of discussion tomorrow if there is any issue. Okay, the, the, the deadline for each lab will be, as mentioned here, the, the week after, the end of the week after the lab.

Okay, so for this, we will have already ended the course, but it's fine anyway, okay, from my perspective. Okay, for, for example, the, the, the last week lab will have as a deadline, the, the, the 24th of, of, of, this, this, this, this, this Friday, okay, for the final delivery of the lab. Of course, of course, of course, of course, you may stick with what you delivered in lab, if you are fine with that, from my perspective, it is fine, I will go through that report, whatever, files, whatever you, you put on, on the section here, in order to have your, your list of, staff, as I said, it is strictly required that you have it at the end of the lab.

I will have a look on the ones that delivered later than that, if there is any reasonable motivation behind that. For example, some of you write me that you have to put something on that is missing and this is no problem on that, if some of you send me an email and say oh I forgot this, let's say, bureaucratic part of the report, that's fine. Just for example, the list of members present in a room or not, that's fine, okay? But instead, if there is no specific reason and you didn't deliver the report at the end of the lab, this is not admissible and so you will have no evaluation, no points for the lab, okay?

As I said multiple times, okay, that's it for, for the, for the, I think. Ah yeah, I mentioned also that you may, you may be present to, the labs are all optional, of course, is in my, in my perspective, in my view, more, well, more meaningful, attend to, to all of them. But from the evaluation, let me say, there is no particular constraint in around one, two, three, whatever number, just the first and then the last or the third and the fourth, whatever, okay? All of them are independent, you can run them independently, okay?

This is of course more for who did not attend the first one and, well, to leave, to who attended the, the option to not run, mandatory, all of them, okay? Just to be clear on the, on the rules. Perfect. Okay, we can get back to, to our theoretical lesson. Last time before the lab, well, from the point in which we ended, before the lab, we, we were discussing about file system forensics, we are discussing about the, the file system creation, the concept, the very concept of metadata and the importance, the key importance in forensic, of, in digital forensics, of the metadata that are a kind of, of spider net that comprise almost any digital artifact, more or less, in a direct or indirect way. So it's an important concept to, to investigate, pretty much any time. And we have different level of metadata at the operating system level, the very metadata that are related to the file system, with the creation date, for example, modification date, etc. We, we, digging into, and we will continue from, from there, about the peculiarities of the file system, that increase or decrease the amount of metadata related, the information related to files, that we can retrieve in our forensic investigation. We have seen the example of FAT, which is a very simple one, one with very basic attributes, and of NTFS, which is pretty much completely organized around attributes, and we have a, a huge infrastructure of data in order to, to provide reliability, security, and efficiency in, in interacting with, with stored files, with stored information. And, well, metadata works also at application level. We've seen the fact that almost, well, any, not any, but we have a different amount of data related, the application, information, the information from the application perspective, depending on the file type. We can identify the file type and also main information related to the content of the file, depending on the file type.

And we've seen a, a very powerful and, uh, permissive tool, which is an exit tool, uh, born to access, exit, a specific format, metadata, and then extended to, basically, every, every existing and, well, standardized file type, in order to both access and edit metadata. And, well, the importance of, of that. We made some examples of application level metadata, uh, of, um, file system level metadata. We, as I said, uh, went through more details, uh, for the NTFS. Well, I, I forgot to mention, to, to acknowledge the contribution to a former student of, uh, this course, which, uh, is, uh, the Maria, from last year, that, uh, as an homework, um, uh, provided some details and some experiments on NTFS introduction, and they put us further reading, further material on the portal, the report that the Maria provided, uh, last, uh, last year, might be a nice source of, uh, source of, uh, information and, uh, nice, uh, piece of, uh, information, meaning it's nice to, to read. And, uh, I put in this, uh, in this slide the, the very content provided by, by the Maria in order to understand the, well, basic, uh, interaction with NTFS and important, uh, tools and, uh, approaches to, to analyze a complex file system using NTFS as a specific kind of, uh, example. That is, pretty much a general example that should, that depending on the file system, can be modified in terms of tools and in terms of, uh, where to find a specific organization. But in terms of, uh, um, abstract scene, what kind of information, what kind of approach in general terms you should, you should use during the investigation, is varied for, uh, basically any modern, um, file system type, which is complex and provides a set of, uh, material information for that. Then we, we went through on a more, uh, on a specific operation, which is the copy, and we can now understand why a forensic copy is different from the normal end-user copy. It's the key, again, is exact, it's mostly, not only, but mostly in terms of metadata. The normal copy of information may alter the metadata, for example, for example, creation time, uh, uh, content, uh, like, access, uh, access, uh, permissions, uh, etc.

While from a forensic perspective, most of the time, we want to access to the original metadata. That's why we need specific tools like GT, again, I mentioned this, uh, um, omnicomprehensive, well, very flexible kind of tool, and the Valiant, because I mentioned the Valiant, of course, because they are using the Valiant Mini, they perform the same copy of GT, but provide also some further, um, very common operation, like on-the-fly, like the hashing, they provide on-the-fly hashing. And why is interesting from a forensic perspective, apart the fact that I need to do that operation, the fact that this provides a kind of atomic, more atomic, at least, um, operation, meaning that they, this kind of tools perform both operations, the copy and the evaluation of the edge, in the same operation. And this is, from a forensic perspective, nice to have this kind of operation as an atomic one, in order to avoid possible manipulation in between the two of them. So it's, uh, practical, perform two operations, but it's also theoretically sound, perform both operations in one step, okay? And this is something which is, uh, uh, a nice to have in a forensic investigation. And, uh, well, I provided some, uh, well, some practical, uh, I think this was the last, uh, yeah, slide that we discussed, and it's useful in order to understand a simple fact, which is, everything can be seen in a, in a modern operating system as a file, and we may have, this is a discussion we already done, and everything can be created as input, and output, in terms of file. It may be a storage, a full storage device, a partition, and, or a specific file sent by the operating system. This means that, for example, I may go encoding the, uh, a specific storage into a file that will have the same, the full structure of a full file system, and I can use this to mount it in a partition, to be an input in a virtual disk, in a, in a virtual machine, for example, and, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. This provides a lot of flexibility, automation, and understanding about how to approach a forensic investigation. Also put, uh, well, some kind of forensic deletion, which is another concept that I think tomorrow we will have, uh, we will dig more into, basically, yeah, I'm saying, using a function height of this command line tool, uh, uh, uh, uh, descendant of DD, that I can put on a, in this case, on a full storage, uh, a pattern of all zero bytes. I can zeroes all the bytes with this kind of, uh, of command, which is, uh, something that in, uh, in terms of forensic deletion, uh, uh, I can be, I can have to, to do, to, to completely erase the, the content of, uh, of an hard drive, and this allowed me to, well, this is some interesting practical point about the file identification. Remember to check, not very much the extension, but instead metadata, and the first bytes that, uh, are signature, not in terms of security, of digital signature, but, uh, uh, a sequence of bytes that allow to identify a file, and this can be done with, with, um, exadegimal reader, we will, uh, see some example of exadegimal reader as a command. But, uh, I was saying that the need to erase completely, uh, a file system, uh, nicely, uh, drive us to the concept of Slack space, which is another source of information that can remain after, uh, normal operation. Slack space is, uh, conceptually simple, but practically very useful in many, well, historically even more, but still, particularly, with all the kind of device, very useful to, to find out remnants of files, not really in terms of being able to completely reconstruct the, the content of files, but instead as, uh, small, um, clues of what was on a, on a storage before, in particular, might be useful in that terms. The concept is very simple. Um, it's, uh, it comes from the difference between the logical interpretation of, uh, information units and the physical interpretation of, uh, information units. Typically, this means the difference between the divides, which are logical units, or bits, if you want, and sectors, or even clusters, um, and, uh, cylinder, in, you know, the, um, hard drive categorization of space. So basically, the point is that sectors have fixed dimensions.

Nowadays, uh, most many times we have, uh, some, some kilobytes, historically we may have 512 bytes, etc., which can, uh, basically can range from, uh, half a kilobyte to four kilobytes, the normal, um, the normal sector dimension. But from the other perspective, files do not have a fixed dimension, might depend exactly on the, the, the, the content of, uh, of the file. Like, for example, well, I may have a text file exactly of 392 bytes or any, any number, basically. When I store this information on the storage, there will be some part of the sector that will be untouched. And this difference between what I store as a real, let me say, information from the application, from the end-user perspective, and what is, uh, allocated in terms of the physical storage is, is less space.

And this is a dynamic entity. And in the sense that, uh, okay, we may see that the first way of seeing that is a kind of waste of space, okay, a minimum amount of bytes not, not used. But if we put that in, in perspective, we understand what is the interesting part from a forensic perspective, if, for example, see the creation of file 1, which has this dimension, and then we have, uh, a certain amount of space. Then we create another file with a smaller, a smaller size, a small number of bytes, then we erase, we delete from operating system perspective, the file 1, the first one, and then we put file 2 on the, on the place, which originally was of file 1, the result is that on the sector originally used by file 1, we will have two hundreds bytes that belongs, that will be there, I don't know for how much time, that belongs to the first file, and that will live, let me say, as a kind of remnant, possibly even forever, because the file 2, my, until the file 2 will be erased again, and then a larger amount of information be allocated to that sector. If, for example, this is a text file with some key information there, this is something that can be recovered by a proper tool that accesses to the very bytes of the very bytes of the information, not relaying on, for example, the file size on some metadata, but instead go directly into the bytes like forensically, forensic tools usually do, okay? And this can be, can be used when I approach the concept of data carving, which is a kind of attempt that my, that my approach, different angles of getting back information from, from the system, and as you now can understand, but try to access all the data on a storage. That's why, for example, you may access or even format a huge storage device of terabytes in a, even in a very quick way, maybe a few seconds, for doing that operation, while some operations from a forensic perspective take metative minutes, tens of minutes, even hours. That's why, because do not rely on the optimization, indexing, metadata in general, information retrieved by the infrastructure of the file system, and of the operating system, but instead, they go into the very bytes in order to get all the content of them. Okay, I think, and, well, okay, I think we already very much discussed this concept. Well, and it is useful to mention that, so, the recovery, well, the extraction of the information from a forensic perspective is something that approach the problem from multiple angles, as a uniform principle, is the point of not to relay on what kind, as a panel and trusted source of information on metadata. Okay? But this does not mean that the recovery, the forensic investigation should not rely on metadata about the acquisition of information. On the contrary, it is important that the tools we are using to find out specific information, check, acquire the information on data that are available on the present file system, files, etc., for two reasons. One, because it can speed up an initial set of results, and second, that may be interesting to be compared with the results of more in-depth data byte-level data-carbing, examination of work present inside the device. Identifying discrepancies might be a kind of red flag flag in order to point to further investigation or interesting facts. And, well, and also from a file system perspective, so we may have basically three levels, the level of normal and user that rely on file deleted, not deleted, not deleted, etc. The file system level that says, for example, okay, this file has been deleted, but a forensic investigation might still check what's inside, because it can retrieve all the information. And then, finally, the unit of the data that has been deleted, so we can see that even if there is a file, maybe even deleted, do not end on the end of the even deleted file, but also examine the extra information inside that result of the data from the discrepancy between the physical and logical units, in order to find further advices about what happened on the very storage. Okay, so we have different levels of analysis that we can consider from a forensic perspective. And, well, if we want to perform this kind of information at hand, which is, well, not very practical, not very common, but from an educational perspective, it is useful to understand what we have what's going on behind the scene. We have some tools that allow to access at an exaditional level the... well, with an exaditional representation, which is nicer from a human perspective instead of a sequence of bits, that allow us to understand the content of... the very content at this level of a file. And here, I just mentioned some nice tools that you can use, both from a command line or from a visual perspective, there exists many more than brought on Windows, Mac OS, and of course, Linux. The important point is access a file in order to find out maybe information discrepancies... well, on the extension, if the file signature is different from the extension, and this historically is a flag, even if nowadays is no longer very much used. In some specific case, it may still happen, but today is not very much used because being a kind of flag, a discrepancy between the extension name and the file type is detected pretty much easily by automatic tools, but still it's important to know.

And, well, apart of the file system, we might identify metadata, the file type, sorry, we might identify metadata, checking the content, and we might find slacked information, information present in the in the slack space. Okay, a nice, well, exercise from educational perspective. Of course, this kind of manual approach can be made very automatic. There exists powerful and well-known tools that approach the data data, the data carving, and like foremost, what is the the point I can give to this kind of tool, a whole file system image, for example, or well, an amount of a piece of file system, and then, and to make it effective, ask for specific kind of files, and then this kind of tools will go into the the input piece of information, the evidence that needs to be examined, in order to find out, to perform that kind of investigation. As I said, a very common one is trying to identify files that have been erased, this is the most typical, like in this case. Basically, this says, basically, this says, look for this kind of file, I'm trying to recover images here, using this file system as input, and put your files that you will be able to find out in this directory. Okay, so at the end of this operation, that might take, as I said, minutes, or depending on the size of the image, even tens of minutes or hours, will have a list of files inside this directory. And the approach is exactly what I said. Basically, this this tool will look inside the image that I passed as input, that I provided as input, a pattern that is capable to identify that file type. Like, for example, if I say jpg file, it will look on the jpg file, it will look on the initial string of bytes, that is, well, many possible byte strings, because we have different version of jpg file type, in order to find out the possible jpg file. And then, according to the file system type, foremost, we'll try to reconstruct the structure of the different point in the file system, where this file is put the information, the various pieces of data that concurred to to provide the final jpg file, to provide the final jpg image. Okay, this is the approach, according to what we described, for a forensically sound approach. And, well, another tool that has been developed for is developed for recovery images, photos in particular, but then extended to many types of data. And, in my experience, it is even more effective than for most. It is good to use both of them, sometimes. Basically, it is pretty much the same. Well, in principle, we should create the same result. Okay, Photorex has some nice, from a theoretical perspective, but Photorex has some nice possibilities, like bypassing directly the file system infrastructure, in order to access directly the device, which is Photorex is almost you, the way to proceed. Also, foremost, we need to do that, but it is historically more indirect, meaning that we should have our image, and then provide that as input, our file system in Ngenium. And, with Photorex, we can connect directly with the stored device, and, well, the process is pretty much the same. Apart some optimization, well, some implementation, some interpretation of what is acquired, as I said, in my experience, Photorex is more clear in terms of output, and, well, more effective in terms of what it is capable to recover. That's basically better implementation of the theoretical concepts we approach.

Okay, okay. So, final operation, the file deletion. Tomorrow, I plan to have some more details on that, more in the discussion. I would just remember that since since information is not only in the very allocated space of the information from the end user, from the application level perspective, but instead there is, there are metadata, Slack space, etc., when we are in the need of forensically to delete some files, we should approach the problem in a more, in a more careful way, and there are, there are specific programs, we already seen a child of BD, that basically allow for that, and there are specific procedures that should be adopted that should be adopted depending on the specific security level in which you are manipulating data in order to correctly close the life cycle of a specific device. Basically, the application used for what is normally called data data signalization are files that approach specific files that selectively, basically selectively delete files, by overriding them with a pattern, many times with a pattern of zeros, that have the destruction software that basically perform the same conceptually speaking thing, but target a full device usually. And, in general, they are more flexible in terms of the procedure, meaning that you can specify a procedure, a procedure to delete all the data inside there. And, well, this might be to avoid, from a forensic perspective, the possibility to recover information, but this is important also for cyber security in general, like, for example, in order to sanitize a device infected by an advanced mother that can infect and that can even use slack space potentially or very advanced techniques in order to be persistent and survive to a superficial attempt to, for example, format or format or erase the hard drive. And also, from a legal perspective, it's good to avoid the possibility to recover sensitive information for, after, for example, hard drive disposal. There are a number of famous cases about even top secret information recorded in reused in reused hard drives, put again on seeded market after usage in military contexts. Okay, so this kind of tools are important and, as I said, we have a number of of different possibilities in order to achieve a complete of the data. In some, for example, this is a military level procedure. In that case, the requirement is also to avoid the possibility to recover using advanced tools of recovery, like, for example, a sensor capable to reconstruct the previous magnetic status of the magnetic field. In that case, in order to completely, to make completely understandable the previous state of the magnetic field, for example, there is, well, there are many indications inside the standard, but, for example, one for medium level inside the military level procedure is to write one time, for the first time, all zeros on the storage, then a second pass that writes all ones on the surface, all ones on the surface, and this is already a very huge complexity, even with very sensible two sensors to recover the previous state, and then, just to be sure, a third one that writes random bits, basically, on all the surface, on the whole storage device, and to each, after each step, verifies that the write has been successful. This means, well, kind of accurate setup, use only certified tools, and then check the results, both ongoing and at the end of the, of each operation.

Okay, this just to give you a kind of view of what is done at military, at military level. Okay, question here, particular question, good. Before changing, well, tomorrow we will have some more details on that, and then I think we will have time to change our focus on a different forensic domain, which is the network forensic. Okay, but before doing that, two little punctualizations that are important. One, which is in modern forensic investigation, is very relevant, the advance in storage technology, has a, well, a performance-wise important result, but also a very important, well, result from a forensic perspective. What I mentioned is is valid, was valid, was valid, is still valid, from the perspective of old-fashioned storage device, the magnetic-based ones. The solid state, instead, technology, is a very different, very different one. And so, it's something that we need to be aware of.

That's something that we need to be aware of, in terms of digital investigation. In particular, an important concept is that the solid state device adopts a completely different physical architecture architecture and principle. But the choice to make, to be compatible with the previous one, when this technology has been introduced in the consumer market, was to provide another level of indirection the device itself and the device itself and the operating system, so at the firmware device level, that somehow translate the operating system drives, operating system drivers command into the real work of the physical device.

And this has an important consequence. The fact that even the operating system is no longer capable to directly access the content of the storage. In some cases, depending on the configuration of the storage itself, the fact that we have, due to this indirection, the FTL, indirection 1, furthermore, well, there is a different and much more consistent problem, which is the weird, in the case of SSD. Meaning, the SSD has just a limited amount of accesses before the cell, the memory cell, will result as damaged one. And then, this requires some kind of work in order to make the life to extend the probability of the life of an SSD drive. Because if I do not, basically, I need to share the information that the operating system, for example, say, say please write this information in that point because I know as operating system, as file system, that that position is, that my file is in that position. The underlying firmware mechanism need to scramble this information in order to avoid unbalanced access to the different positions of the SSD storage device. Otherwise statistically some cells will get damaged very well very much sooner than the other part of the hard drive, and then this will be a waste of resources from any perspective, money, devices, sustainability, etc. And so what is done as underlying mechanism is the automatic reallocation of the data on less used part of the SSD independently of what the operating system says. Even if the operating system says go to that location inside the drive, still that location may be physically a different one on the on the physical device, this in order to statistically distribute the usage, to make an equally distributed usage of the cell and to avoid the premature death of the device. And as you may imagine, this is something critical from a forensic perspective, and we have more than that. Let's go and start in this description.

The first, well, the huge issue is the FTL, as I said, the flash translation layer, that differently from the old HDD that has a fixed and stable mapping to the physical location, even if somehow the physical presence of the storage on the storage on the device on the HDD provides some wheel, some consumption, some deterioration of the surface, even the fact that this is magnetic and not really physically touch the surface, this is a lot a lot less impacting, a lot less impacting, a lot less important than in the case of the flash technology and the memory cells in an SSD.

So the problem is much more important here, and that's why it's strictly needed the FTL, plus the fact that the solution, the chosen solution was to not modify the existing component, but instead provide a kind of compatibility to the previous organization of the operating system. that's why this indirection, kind of middle layer between the two, is needed to provide the sustainability of the device, while maintaining the compatibility with the existing solution, with the existing operating system architecture. And, well, as second important point, as I mentioned, we have the weird leveling that not only translates, but also continuously migrates the content of a piece, of a file, of any kind of information, from one point to another, meaning that acting one acting one, my file might be at the beginning of the SSD, acting two, even if in principle, I did not touch that file, the content of my file might be in any other place of the SSD, even at the end or whatever.

Okay? And this is a world of possibly different implementation of where we are living, in order to avoid the usage of the same cell. And this basically breaks the approach that I mentioned so far, the fact that maybe I may have a file that, a piece of information of a file that is maintained for an unpredictable amount of time, even after deletion. In this case, in this case, in this case, I may have a reorganization of the content, even before the deletion of the file, if you think it is basically the contrary of what I described so far, in case of this new technology.

And, well, we have more on that, we have, in order to organize this interaction in an efficient way, is introduced another command from the operating system perspective, that just says, well, this file has been deleted. Not deleted, not deleted exactly this file, this is a command for the firmware, that enables, well, many different kinds of actions. This is a command of action. This is the trim command, the task for, basically, deletion of an information. Deletion of an information. A very notable point here is the fact that the independence of the underlying mechanism from the operating system will, is so extended that this, the effect of a trim command, according to the implementation of this one, at firmer legal, and normally this is something that happens, might continue, even in the implementation of this one, at firmer level, and normally this is something that happens.

after the power-off of the power-off of the laptop, for example. Very interesting. So, this means that the operating system will, the operating system will, is so extended that this, the effect of a trim command, according to the implementation of this one, at firmer level, and normally this is something that happens, might continue even after the power-off of the laptop, for example. Very, very interesting. So, this means that my underlying information might change even after the switch off of my computing device. Okay? Another very important change that must be taken into account in a forensic investigation, meaning that, for example, I, in many cases, I cannot make the very simple distinction between, okay, the device is switched off or switched on, and then I can proceed with two different approaches.

In case of the SSD, of the presence of SSD, I should also consider, okay, has been switched off right now, right now, a few seconds ago, or a long time ago, and this might make some difference, then I can approach differently. For example, also, the volatility level of the information is different, because it's now much, much more increased, much more close to the central memory, volatility level. Okay? So, maybe, according to the scenario, I might try to acquire immediately the content of the device, instead of set up nicely all the stuff, unplug the content, and so on.

And that is connected to the garage collection performed by the microcontroller of the SSD, that, basically, according to internal organization, to the... well, with the rationale to predict, to extend the life of the storage, might perform the real deletion of a file in very different times in respect of the request from the operating system. That, in some sense, might help sometimes, but again, change the approach from a forensic perspective, because the actual operation of file erase might happen a lot after the order given by the operating system.

Again, for example, in order to collect a lot of operation and change and access the cells, the memory cells, just one time in order to extend the life of the device. Okay? And, well, the wheel leveling, we already mentioned that, and it's good to mention that we may have different strategies of leveling for the wheel, for the consumption of the device, according to different producers, to different manufacturers. Again, this is an information that I need to acquire as a forensic investigator, in order to understand what might be the best approach on a specific model.

You may appreciate the fact that the complexity is significantly increased in presence of SSG. Well, basically, we may have variants, not only, well, basically, to each aspect, depending on each command. For example, in literature, I know different trim approaches, and in particular, the standard itself defines three possibilities after the trim command. Since we may have, well, and this depends on the behavior on the field, not necessarily on the content, on the physical content of the data cells.

In order to have a more or less predictable behavior, different, more or less complex implementation, different strategies are present inside the standard, which are... Okay, I admit a command to delete a file, if I access the cells that are the subject of the trim command, I may have a... Ah, well, I may have the previous content of the cell, or another content after some relocation. This means, basically, if you try to access again, get what is real inside that cell, but this means that I may have kind of unpredictable content due to the behavior, to the internal behavior of an SSD that might have relocated the cell.

So, this is a simple approach, but may be complex from many perspectives, and so the DRAT and DZ are more used approaches that say, okay, you'll delete some, a piece of information, if you try to access again, that, then I do not access really to the content of the memory, but instead, as a firmware, let me say, I provide back to you operating system that is asking for data, a deterministic result, this is the DRAT approach, where what is this number might be implementation-dependent, this is not mandated, this is just saying that if you access, get back always the same data, which is defined by the manufacturer, basically, or we have an even nicer one, which is the DRAT approach, same of deterministic, same of deterministic, but instead, in this case, is explicitly said that you get back, the operating system gets back a sequence of zeros, okay, again, also in this case, regardless of the real content of the memory, okay, this allows for a more deterministic and clear interaction with the device, but from a forensic perspective, you might clearly see that this has a huge impact.

differently from what we are used to see, we now have, immediately after deletion, even if the data, in principle, is still there, an answer that says there's nothing left there, we just, you just have zeros, so you cannot really recover the content of the content of the previous file, this is an important difference in respect of the previous problem. Furthermore, we, well-known red blocker approach, the red blocker standard, I, yeah, I said a lot of stuff about that. Even a red blocker cannot access direct directly the storage, there is still there is still there is still there is the firmal layer between the red blocker and the device, okay, so even the red blocker cannot guarantee the stability of the information, stability of the information on an SSD, okay, and, well, this is, and there is a, well, depends on the configuration of your SSD, but in some cases there is not very much that a forensic investigator can do, apart, well, a pretty risky substitution of the firmware of the device, which is a much, much more complex operation. Otherwise, it is accepted, even from a, as a guideline, the fact that in this case, the red blocker might be omitted, or might be omitted, might be not enough in order to ensure the stability of the information. Okay? This is taken into account in a forensic investigation, because it's a low-level characteristic of the device. An interesting point, an interesting point, an interesting point, an interesting point that we have to An interesting point is the hashing, but you might think, okay, so also the hash loses the meaningfulness, hashing performs the hash of the file, loses meaningfulness in this case.

No, in this case this is not true, because the nice firmware layer still maintains a proper mapping, even if the addresses inside, even if the points in which information are stored inside the drive changes from time to time, still the layer, the firmware layer, performs a correct mapping of the information and then retrieves and provides to the operating system always the same, well, the correct, let me say, set of information. So the hash operation maintains the proper result and holds as an important and meaningful operation, even in presence of the SSD drive.

As I said, this can conclude that data recovery might be very subject to variability, but experimental results said that the recovery of deleted files has been very, very hard in the case of training command enabled, okay, which is, well, most of the time, well, a nice thing from the perspective of the user, of the device, of the operating system, etc., etc., because otherwise, we will have a significantly shorter life of the storage device. And, well, you may note that most of the time, as forensic investigator, we cannot access the configuration of a device, and this depends entirely on the end user.

So, well, most of the time, in the presence of SSDs, the assumption is dramatically that existing data, most of the time, are no longer accessible, basically like the hard drive is encrypted, but in a definitive way, okay, and that's, well, we have advanced techniques that might interact with that, but they are not very, well, they depend, they are context-dependent and pretty complex in many times, okay? Okay, questions? For today, we can conclude now.

To be next, well, thank you. All right. All right.
