Okay, we can start, first of all, any questions from previous lessons, doubts, remarks, something nice to share among us, feel always free to share your thoughts, your questions, remarks, I will probably not say that anytime, but this is valid for any time we meet, in order to exchange and enrich and correct and improve the knowledge, our knowledge, also my name. Okay, if no question or remarks so far, we can continue from the collection phase, well, we were at the end of some remarks on collection, and then we can continue with the next phase, according to my categorization, which is acquisition. Acquisition is the process of, well, multiplying, making copies, creating possible artifacts, possible evidence that we can examine and also compromise somehow, alter and, well, damage, because we have the original artifact that we gather from the crime scene somehow. 

So, the very inherent action here is performing a copy of what we gather in a forensically sound way, meaning using appropriate and validated tools in order to ensure that the replica is a faithful one, meaning we are maintaining the integrity of the replica. A key concept in digital forensics, and particularly in this phase, is the concept of hashing, a concept very well known here in a cyber security context. The point here is that we have to multiply the operation of hashing, meaning we need to do an hashing, the evaluation of a digest for a digital evidence, basically, any time we manipulate it. 

And I said we need to multiply the digesting operation, also in terms of doing an hash with multiple algorithms at the same time. And sometimes it is nice or required, or suggested at least, to use many, more than one, two, basically, most of the time is more than enough, hashing algorithm in order to ensure absolutely the integrity of a digital evidence after an operation. We will not do that in our exercise, but it's good to know that this might be required, having more than one hash algorithm involved during the acquisition process. 

Well, this is, hashing is the basic operation, but also an understanding of what procedurally speaking is the most appropriate behavior, is something variable from a forensic investigation perspective. So, again, the knowledge of how our actions can impact our evidence. Also, the acquisition differs from the collection, as I said last time, in the perspective that we are now in a kind of safe place, inside our secure lab, we acquired the digital evidences and we can use our tools inside our secured room with trusted colleagues, and so on. 

But still, if we proceed in a unaware, let's say, not very knowledgeable way, we still can damage our evidences. Meaning that, for example, we collected, for example, a laptop from the crime scene, the laptop is still switched on. If we, for example, interact with the system, even in our nice and secure lab, in a way that can alter metadata, still we can damage our artifacts.

This is pretty obvious, but if we don't know from, yeah, this example is obvious, but there are subtleties that might be involved, like subtleties of tools that alter the data, that perform interaction with the system in a not very knowledgeable way, any of them can alter significantly our evidence. So, the first choice that many times we need to take is to perform a static meeting with passive or in a passive state devices, or a live one, interacting directly with the system. Well, as a kind of general rule, depends on where are the data that we are looking for. 

So, also the knowledge of the context, not only of the tools that we are going to use and of the tools that we are going to examine is important, but also the context in which we want to perform investigation, meaning where the evidences are stored. If they are on a storage, on a laptop, okay, then it might be good to power down the system, because this can minimize the interaction of the live one with the underlying file system and files and so on, while after we power down the device, the laptop for example, we can extract during a forensic image the very content of the storage and then mount it in a safe place, in a safe way and analyze in detail any data inside there, even where possible information are already marked as deleted inside the slack space, which is very complex, or even in a marked as deleted file, but still not overwritten by other files. So, in case we know that the storage is the final place of our investigation, is the main, is the unique place of our investigation, thanks to other information that we gather during the initial phases, then switch off a device might be a good choice.

On the contrary, if our data might be in a more collective box, meaning RAM, network connections, or even on the cloud, on an active cloud connection, that I still can access with the original device, then it's good to maintain it live and perform analysis. It might be good to perform live analysis in order to extract information from the central memory, from the cloud storage, or maybe we know this is a kind of mixed case, we know that the important data are in the storage, but that the storage is encrypted. So, having a bit-by-bit copy of the storage will be without any, cannot achieve any result because all the material is under a powerful AS cryptographic algorithm, for example. 

In that case, the encryption key to access the storage may still be in the central memory, so we are still, we may be still in time to get these encryption keys in order to acquire the content of the storage. So, also in this case, it may be useful to try a live analysis on a running system. And, well, remains valid what I said last time, that also depends on who is our opponent, what kind of knowledge has our opponent, if he's a very skilled expert in computer science that can be able to manipulate the internals of the operating system, then we have another variable which is maybe has compromised any component of the operating system on the device. 

And then, I cannot trust, even if it would be useful to perform a live analysis, maybe I can take the chance, the choice to switch it off because all the system is compromised and provide wrong or manipulated results. Okay, those are all subtleties that I should consider when I want to try to get a RAM dump, a dump of the content of the central memory, or instead try to access directly the storage of the device in order to extract the information. Also, of course, also has been noticed yesterday, in some cases, yesterday I mentioned the fact that I can extract the RAM module and put it in a very low temperature and then extract the content in the lab without relying on the laptop, which is good in case like my opponent is a skilled one and I have enough resources to have a kind of cryogen bag to freeze, literally, the RAM. 

This might be a nice option if, for example, the RAM is not in a temper-proof device, for example. In that case, another variable, I cannot access physically the RAM because there are devices in which, if I try to open the case, a kind of self-destruction of the component is present, or at least a complete delete of the content is present. And then just the action to try to extract it would make completely useless the module.

And again, I need to know what is my target and the properties and the countermeasures present on the target that I'm going to examine in order to choose the acquisition strategy. Okay, and then we have some details on the different options. Acquisition from static perspective, which is the case in which I switch off the computer and then I need to be careful in case of encrypted devices because I may lose forever access to them if the decryption key is wiped from the sources that I can use to perform my investigation. 

In any case, when I perform a static analysis, I should use as much as possible compliant, acceptable, admissible tools like write blockers, not only write blockers, hardware write blockers whenever possible, not only hardware write blockers, but write blockers that are in a list of renowned, well-known, admissible ones from the main vendors, from a list that has been tested by independent third-party labs that certify, okay, this works perfectly fine whenever possible in order, as much as I use devices, mechanisms, processes that are considered acceptable, that have been already considered acceptable in a court of justice, the better will be my work, my result. I would not be countered by an admissibility exception from the adversarial patterns. Okay, so good to use another hand listed write blocker and, well, we will see, we will mention again the fact that we need to document our phases in very detail. 

Another point that is good to document in order to be admissible is what kind of write blocker I used, okay, what kind of hardware software and what model I used, okay, and what kind of commands or tools coming from what kind of source. Again, of course, it's different if I'm going to perform, for example, because I need to maintain, switch on the device, a bit-by-bit copy using a tool present on a non-trusted system, on the suspect system, like, for example, running it's a Linux box, I run the dd command, okay, but it's different, might be compromised, might be a version, a bad version, even possibly in general, and this can raise exception during the trial. Instead, it's another matter if I use the add from my, for example, USB pen drive, much better, or even better if I was able to use add on a completely trusted system with my library, my shared library, libraries, whatever, all the system under my control. 

So, we can see three possible scenarios here, a different level of admissibility and trustability. Tools on the suspect machine, programs under my control that use the system of the suspect, which might be the case of a program on my USB pen drive that anyway uses to run on the system the library of the suspect system, and also the libraries can be compromised, okay. The low-level operating system component that provides, for example, direct access to the storage, or third case, the best one from a forensic investigation perspective, if I'm able to run a system fully under my control, like, for example, I used a portable, I switched off the device, the laptop, for example, I have on my pen drive not only a program, but a complete, for example, live Linux distribution that I can run, I can boot on the system and use to mount and access to the storage and examine and acquire the content of the storage, okay. 

This is the preferable one, but as I said before, in some cases, this is not a viable option for the reason we mentioned. In any case, any time I perform a copy, I should try to generate the hash of the original media before and after the acquisition in order to be able to compare the result of the original evidence and after of the evidence after the copy in order to see that no errors have been introduced. And finally, any time I perform an acquisition, from that point on, I need to continue to provide security to be very careful on how I maintain, manage, access, move the evidence in order to be sure to not introduce right now that is under my control, any further error, any further manipulation, unwilling manipulation on the image. 

From the live perspective, instead, typically, very typically, I'm interested in the content of the run. And so there is a full forensics, digital forensics lever, which is memory forensics, that developed tools that allow to access, acquire the memory. And if you think this is a subtle and complex problem by itself, because when I interact with the system, with the operating system, asking to get the content of the RAM, even this action is changing something in the RAM. 

This is, well, inherent with the fact that the RAM is the one, the memory that is used to execute programs. So also the acquisition of something is somehow the execution of a problem, of a program. And then a minimal amount of modification is unavoidable in this case. 

Tools have been developed in order to minimize the impact, maybe to not privilege the efficiency of the operation, but instead to increase, to reduce as much as possible the interaction with the operating system and with the central memory in order to maintain the content of the memory unaltered in the dump, in the creation of an image of the content of the RAM. Well, when we perform a live acquisition, most of the time we are always interested in network parameters that were running on the system, like open socket, the present active TCP connection, for example, the kind of application level protocol used at the moment, and they use both from the source point of view and from the destination point of view. Of course, if we can access this data not interacting with the suspect device better, if we, for example, the scenario that I mentioned yesterday, the suspect is not aware of the ongoing investigation that is using the device, I can ask the administrator to run a network scanner, like a map, or put a sensor, a probe, on the device and acquire with a packet sniffer the content of the network interaction. 

Those kinds of scenarios are even better, but if I cannot do this kind of hidden approach, then I need to rely on the system with commands like start and so on in order to understand the content of the network, what I can recover from the live system in respect of the network parameters still ongoing. You know that this can be a matter of very few minutes when still some connections are active, or if still I have some remnants of the user port or of the connection, for example, in the final TCP state that we can experience in a four-way teardown that lasts for a couple of seconds until a few minutes. This might be something that we need to do very quickly in a pretty hectic scenario. 

Still, as soon as we can, we should perform the relevant integrity verification actions like, again, document what we did, what was the status of the system. Most of the time it's going to take pictures, literally physical pictures with your smartphone, whatever, your nice photo camera, etc., of the scene, even multiple, even make videos in order to capture details of what happened that maybe have been overlooked or missed by the forensics investigator. Yeah, a possible action is, okay, I have just a couple of seconds, my colleagues start a video of what I'm doing and start to try to collect the network information because they are lost, and while I'm doing that, I have a complete record of the action and of the output of the screen that may be examined and analyzed after both to see if something was missing from the perception of the investigator or even if the investigator performed any error that can compromise




the evidence and also perform as soon as possible an hash of what we captured in order to be as close as possible from the moment to the moment in which we acquired the data, the evidence. And yes, this is basically what I said. And here is mentioned also the fact that we may use, well, MD5 is still used not alone, but in couple with SHA2 family.

I would prefer to not use MD5, but sometimes it is used. Here, the fact that we can use multiple algorithms in order to have stronger evidence, stronger proof that an evidence has not been manipulated. And, well, of course, pretty obvious, but good to mention, we need to document any parameters also.

Yeah, a question, please. Sorry? The process in a related environment. What do you mean? What are the access to people? Ah, well, we have in real life, of course, I'm approaching the point from a theoretical perspective.

In real life, we have lots of possible issues. For example, a trusted execution environment can make it very hard to obtain some data. And that's a matter of fact.

But another much more common and similar somehow problem is dealing with cloud-based information that are completely under control of the cloud provider that might be unwilling to provide to an investigation, if not a very sensitive or important one. Or even the, well, and also basically, even the fact that we have encrypted storage may be many times a kind of barrier that the investigator cannot surpass. In that case, this is why we are talking about investigations.

There is the need, we have the need of acquiring different sources in order to correlate the information and conclude with some conclusion. So sometimes we have barriers that are there and we cannot surpass. And this is, well, the interesting part, in my view, of a forensic investigation, not, well, we are talking about stuff, we have a procedure here, very nice, very good, all easy.

If we do the stuff in the correct way, we will result in a bomb-proof kind of conclusion. But this is almost never the case in reality. OK, we have a lot of details.

We have sound hypotheses that we need to develop and that we need to defend in a court of justice. OK, but this is a very funny part, a kind of very challenging task that, well, depending on the personal inclination, might be pretty funny. OK, what I was saying is that we need to document also the details of the hashing process, hashing algorithm, the implementation, what is the tool that we are using that implement the algorithm and that might be bad as well.

What is, of course, the result, the digest itself, that need to be carefully documented, because usually it is a long one, you may introduce errors. Those are somehow obvious points that you need to deal with. But historically, we have lots of investigations, well, all the nowadays investigations that have been compromised by this kind of errors. 

And well, another point to remember is maintaining, having a fully detailed and carefully documented chain of custody in order to understand at any time, well, something that in a court of justice is done by the attorneys usually. All the time is carefully checked, the chain of custody to see if there are no missing steps from the beginning, from the, let me say, creation of the evidence until the moment in which the evidence has been presented in the court of justice. Otherwise, the counterpart might always say, OK, but there is a missing step, maybe in this point the evidence has been compromised, modified, altered somehow.

OK, only a single weak ring, meaning something that we cannot say for sure, has been fully under our control, from the investigator perspective, controlled, can jeopardise the admissibility in a court of justice and then compromise a strong bulletproof process. And well, information aspects that can be questioned are even, of course, the tools, the coherences of time and date, but also the personnel involved. If some not expert personnel perform some steps during the identification, collection, acquisition, even examination, also this point might be questioned in a court of justice.

And of course, the chain of custody becomes, in a certain sense, an evidence by itself. And so also the content of the chain of custody must be protected and maintained, not altered as well. OK. 

Because otherwise, like when we, exactly if we perform a digest on a message and we have an error on the digest, we can no longer say where is the error if we still have the correct message, but the digest is altered or the opposite, or maybe both of them are altered. OK. The same for the chain of custody. 

If we have an alteration on the documentation of the steps we performed, then we can no longer say it was a problem in the documentation or in the process itself. So the chain of custody becomes a key and sensitive artefact. Questions? No questions? Just in order to, well, have an example of acquisition, a simple one, just in order to have some practical data somehow, some realistic data to reflect on.

I'm going to show you a possible scenario of acquisition where we have a possible incident, a pretty simple scenario in which we identified a suspect inside an organisation that exfiltrated a sensitive financial document from the organisation and that other part of the identification phase we used a drive to think that the employee used a USB pen drive, in this case, to exfiltrate the data through specific spreadsheets containing financial data. In this case, we focus on the USB. By definition, this is a very simplified scenario. 

It is incredibly unlikely that it is that simple a real investigation, but just in order to have our focus here, we have this simplified scenario. So what we should, how we can approach as a forensic investigator the problem? We identify the device, the USB flash drive. In this case, it is very simple. 

The USB drive is, let me say, switched off by definition. So I can perform a static analysis on that. But in the identification phase, what I need to do, I need to identify clearly the device with serial number, manufacturer, model, etc., etc., in order to understand what is the equipment I'm dealing with.

Before starting, of course, before starting the analysis of the device, because I need to know if there are any subtleties, if, for example, what is the file system used by default on this kind of model, maybe. So I can hypothesize that the file system is that one, etc., or if there are any known bugs, what are the functionality of the device, for example. For example, is available a kind of secure wiping option on the device? Usually it's not available on a pen drive, but I need to know anything like that.

Since I'm going to acquire, to perform a static operation, I should have with me a write blocker tool, preferably another one. And well, the pen drive is a very typical case, very suitable for hardware write blockers. There is the possibility to plug in the pen drive in those tools and start the write blocker acquisition.

What I should also have is a forensics workstation, my laptop with a Kali or even better, Tsuruji or Kain, specifically crafted distribution for computer forensics. And as an immediate consequence, we have a set of validated tools suitable to perform a forensic investigation, a forensic acquisition in this case. I'm focusing on the acquisition in this simple example. 

And even better, if my workstation, my forensic workstation, has been checked and validated by other practitioners, my colleague, maybe a third party, they check the content and put a nice mark that says it's clean and correct. As a third component, a real life component, in order to acquire digital evidence, I should have a forensic storage, again, a device, a pen drive basically, a device which is in a list of compliant hard drives, low error rates, usually good speed, because usually I acquire terabytes of data, so having a good speed device is a good option in a real investigator. But even more importantly, someone that is considered robust in order to not introduce errors during the process of coping, moving, examining terabytes of data.

And another practical point, this device should be used only for forensic analysis, only for forensic investigation, because using different tools might introduce, might raise the probability of errors, the probability of modification, but also might raise the possibility of having some being affected by some specifically targeted operation that want to, well, compromise the investigation itself. And, well, this is a kind of general principle, the tools used for an investigation should be as much as possible dedicated only to investigations in general, but even better, this is in case of very important ones, even better for that specific investigation. In order to be compromised to, let's say, reduce the attack surface of those tools, the hard drive, the computer, the laptop, the workstation used for the investigation.

The phases are then those, the main phases are these ones. I need to plug the USB in my write blocker that allows for imaging the content. Then I use a bit-by-bit image tool that allows bit-by-bit copy, again, not a kind of cut-and-paste tool like the ones we are usually, that we are used to see in a normal operating system environment, but the ones like DD command that allow for bit-by-bit copy.

Then, comparison of the hash, well, before the bit-by-bit copy, you have to have an hash of the original image, I can do that even after, conceptually, immediately after the bit-by-bit copy, I should have the hash, I should be able to create the hash of the original one, the hash of the copy, and be able to compare both of them. And then, if the hash is fine, I can document the process. This is how this kind of write blocker device may appear.

Stuff that I can use to plug USB hard drives might have different bus interfaces, from the old ISO to the USB, to the recent USB ones, USB-C, whatever, FireWire, etc. In general, if you want a good flexibility, you must be willing to pay more for this kind of device. Otherwise, we have specialized devices that maybe are good to acquire just USB content, or specific hard drives content, and so on.

Anyway, the process is put, in this case, your USB inside the write blocker, use commands that allow to perform the copy and to verify the status of the USB pen drive. Like, for example, the commands we have seen from the last lesson, in order to see the status of the USB bus, and of the external device, the GT command, etc. And again, instead, in the chain of custody, we should put the device metadata, model, device identifier, even observation or photographs, or maybe both of them, on the status of the device.

For the bit-by-bit forensic image, we have a good amount of possible tools. FTK Imager is a very famous and used one. It is used in real forensic investigation because it has a nice interface, and is a quick tool, and supports famous and widespread formats for forensics acquisition. 

So FTK Imager is a pretty famous one. If we love the command line interface, we have the DD that I already mentioned, and we have also somehow the DD evolutions that, for example, perform embed the execution of the hashing algorithm of the hash algorithm in the copy itself. So, automatically, just after the end of the copy, they provide as output also the hash of the final image.

And this kind of tools are BC3DD, BD Rescue, and we have a lot of further possible tools, visual, with a visual interface, or command line-based. The parameters are basically some technical details in order to run a command like DD, in order to speed up or mandate some behavior that is forensically sound. For example, the dimension of the block size during a bit-by-bit copy may impact significantly the process of imaging.

And, well, you may say this is just a kind of performance perspective, but sometimes this is not the only point, meaning that sometimes we need to perform our actions in a very short amount of time. And so, it is of big impact if we can acquire an image in a matter of minutes, instead, in a matter of tens of minutes or hours, can impact and compromise the investigation. For example, the acquisition of some information that allows to acquire other volatile information.

So, sometimes it might be important not only in order to speed up the investigation, but really in order to acquire or not some evidence. And, well, some other behavior is how to deal with errors or not. An example with two command line tools is one with DD and one with DC3D.

Basically, the syntax is very similar, because I need to say what is the source of evidence. In this case, for example, I have the pen drive in my Linux box as an SDB drive. This is the input file here.

I want to acquire the whole pen drive, so I specify sdb, no sdb1, sdb2, etc., in case I have multiple partitions there. I acquire everything, of course. And where I put that? Inside the usbimage.dd file, which is exactly, bit by bit, the content of the pen drive, if this command, this DD command, does not introduce any error.

And, in this case, immediately, at the end, I create an hash of the image. And I put it in this folder file that needs to be always together with my image, with my DD image. In order to check at any time what is the, if, for example, at any time, any willing or unwilling error being introduced in this usbimage.dd file.

From time to time, after any operation, basically, I can check, I can create another digest of that and check with the original one that I created just after the creation of this forensic image. The dc3.dd is not very much different, but we have more parameters that allow to acquire information in one step, with no further commands that I need to run. Basically, if I specify hash equal SHA-256, I'm saying, ok, during, at the end of this operation, create, evaluate also the hash using this algorithm of my copied image.

And put the information, the hash, but even other information on, about how the process was, if any errors have been introduced and so on, inside this file that, again, I should always put together with my original image. Ok, in general, in a forensic investigation, they use a dc3.dd.





This kind of specially, forensically crafted command are preferred in respect of the plain one like the D, just because are more efficient and may introduce and may reduce the possibility to introduce errors. OK, and then any time I want to understand if after any action or maybe from time to time if after a specific period of time, once a month, if I didn't touch it, for example, I want to be sure that no errors have been introduced in the forensic copy, I can perform again the action and compare with, for example, a diff command between the original hash created on the specific device and on the actual image. I can do this just after the first copy, and this is mandatory, but any time I want to check again the content of the image.

In that case, of course, I'm not hashing the original, but I'm hashing again the image and I compare the present hash, imagine to have a present hash with the original one that by definition should be the same of the USB image.db at the beginning, at least. OK, pretty clear? Just the sequence is subtle here, but the concept is very simple. Parameters of the chain of custody in this case are date and time of the acquisition, of course, time zone, details that don't matter, operator name, the physical location in which you perform the operation, the people, the personnel present during the examination.

Why? Because also interaction, we need to be sure that in case after some time we find some compromise information from one of the person present there, we can be sure that did not interfere with the acquisition process. OK? And then other aspect we basically already described the details of the involved devices and tools, the details of the user algorithms and implementation. Like, for example, what I should be document here, the version of this command, if I use this command, OK? And the system that run this command, because depending on the specific version of the command and of the system, I might find later that there are bugs inside that that can influence exactly the operation that I performed.

And so I need to know also this information and manage carefully the result of the acquisition. Aspects that I need to be aware and that I try to mitigate or better avoid are an awareness of the details of the acquisition. So having, for example, acquired the information using normal file system mounting of the pen drive, obviously wrong because modified timestamps and metadata like access.

Or even better than just mounting normally, a device is using a forensic station and using a read-only mounting for acquiring the evidence. This might be acceptable, but it's less strong in a debate because I always say, OK, but maybe there is a bug. Maybe you forgot to put it in read-only or maybe, OK, you mounted it in read-only, but you know, maybe the operating system using a direct device access modified something, et cetera, et cetera.

It gets much more challenging in an important, if especially, particularly, if you are dealing with a very important trial. Well, another pitfall for, well, who is not very expert, not know very much about hashing algorithm that maybe uses just MD5. This is pretty and still is quite common use of MD5, the usage of MD5 inside a forensic investigation.

This is, of course, something that can be changed in a path of justice. So because MD5 is, well, efficient in terms of memory, we have a short digest. Not in terms of computation, SHA family is faster, but in terms of, well, usage of memory is efficient.

So sometimes, still, someone is tempted to use it. But of course, we know that collision might be provoked, that anyway, the size of the digest might be low, but much larger possibility of collision in respect of SHA family algorithm, et cetera, et cetera. So this should avoid the usage of MD5, particularly of MD5 alone.

OK. Well, some interesting part. Interrupting image in a forensically robust laboratory, we are equipped, and this is another reason for which we should, if possible, not perform any operation on the crime scene, let's say, is because we have less robust countermeasure to disaster, occasional events like power shortage that can introduce errors during the acquisition process or can compromise, definitely, our evidence.

So in robust labs, we have, for example, UPS system that avoids the interruption of power supply. Or another problem that might be related to the third and the fifth point here is that we are not fully aware of the details of our device. And then, for example, provided a wrong set of parameters in order to acquire the image.

For example, the wrong block size of that was used to format the device. And this can result in incomplete or not easily verifiable image, acquired image. This is in respect of we do not, maybe this can be the result of not having a full documentation about the device.

The insufficient documentation can be seen also from the other side. We, as a forensic investigator, provided insufficient documentation. And we already discussed how this can be challenged in a court of justice.

And of course, bad errors are always after the corner. But sometimes, those might be subtle ones. For example, if I'm not aware of, I can set up my, for example, my command in order to continue, because maybe I'm not aware, after an error on a bit, without asking to continue, if continue or not.

And then I have a final image with wrong content. And this can compromise the copied image. And this can be significant for the copied image.

But I still have the original one. Much worse are damage on the original ones. For example, I acquired, well, OK, well, a USB pen drive.

I used it, I carelessly put it in a bag with other stuff. Then this poor pen drive has been altered by a physical strike, let's say. And then some transistor are damaged inside that.

Or with other possible sources, a magnetic one, for example. Or, yeah, an old DVD. Why not? An old DVD that is based on the reflection of light.

If I take the DVD with my dirty finger, I can compromise the readability of cells due to the opacity of my fingerprint on the surface of a DVD. Again, a kind of careless behavior, very frequent. Well, not among forensic investigators, but among normal users at the time of DVDs.

Well, is it clear? Do you know what is a DVD? Still a chance to see? No, because now I'm disappearing. And sometimes I'm wondering if I put myself, well, a lot of myself is already in history. But I don't know how much of me.

So it's not clear if when I talk of DVD, I'm talking of something similar for your perspective to all the floppy drives that I still used 20, well, 30 years ago nowadays. OK, no, this is just a reality check for myself. And well, those are final good option, two good remarks that you should consider when you approach a forensic acquisition.

We already discussed any of them. OK, questions? Let's have a break. OK, any further comment on what we have seen? I uploaded the slides that I presented on the specific yet simple scenario there that we discussed in the first part of the lesson.

Maybe I should mention the fact that someone is already asking for homework. So feel free if you want to propose to discuss a possible homework to contact me and, well, propose topic. And this would enable the possibility to define specific topics that you can start to work with even now, even if, for example, I don't know, with something related to cloud forensics and we will present cloud forensic topic next month, at the end of the next month or even after, you can still start to work with that with specific point.

The constraint here is just that you will present the stuff after we have presented the overall topic in the course. But there is no problem to start to work with it even now. OK, so if you are interested in homework, you check the program of the course and want to propose.

Oh, yeah, another point is someone asked for anti-forensics. That will be one of the last topics of the course. OK, and it's completely fine if you start to work with that even right now.

OK, so feel free to contact me in case of interest. And this is a fair thing to say because, as I said, we have a limited number of acceptable proposals just due to the space, to the time we can devote to this, to this topic. For each homework, there will be a report and a presentation during the course, during the lecture hours.

So we can accept, well, just some more than 10, maybe 15 that take from 10 to 15 minutes each for the presentation. Otherwise, it will use too much of the lecture time. OK, that's the only reason for having a limited amount of possible homework.

I remember, again, that the homework can be assigned to only one person. OK, they are only, yeah, that's it. OK, OK, let's continue with our topic, with our phases of forensics investigation.

OK, we conclude the part in which we gain, we get the source of evidences. And then there is the start of the phase in which we evaluate, we examine, we correlate the different components. Well, again, also in this phase, I need to perform actions or analysis that find out if something is admissible or not, if the integrity has not been compromised.

The authenticity of the searches is something that can be verified after a careful analysis. Like, for example, nowadays, we have lots of so-called deep fakes that, at first sight, might resemble completely realistic stuff. In that case, both a technical analysis and a correlation analysis might find out what is the truth.

If we can see signs of artifacts in an artificially created image, well, with artificial intelligence, we can create very realistic results nowadays. But they may still have some details not perfectly fine. Well, I have shown exactly one week ago an example of a detail, not so small detail, on the image that I used to introduce a section of my course, when the girl used the back of the laptop to digit the commands on the computer, which is something, of course, meaningless from a real perspective, but a kind of error that a synthetic image can do, an artificial intelligence tool can have done on an image.

And of course, but sometimes, from a technical perspective, we may have fully sound evidences. And so is the correlation between different sources that can drive us to conclude if something is authentic or not. For example, I may have a completely valid image that, for example, I draw myself on a sunny day exactly now on Palm Spring Beach in the United States.

And since we have a recording of this lesson that is ongoing right now and a lot of witnesses, you right now, I can prove even if the image seems completely realistic and with no single error inside that the guy inside the image is not the real me, because the real me is here. Whatever I can mean for the real me. And this is correlating different, and again, understand that by the correlation of different sources of information.

OK, people like you, in this example, the recording of the lesson versus an image that tells a different story. And then I should understand what it is. Maybe just through a democratic process of majority or by other means, what are the authentic sources and what are the fake ones.

And this is the process that I... So we have some line of process here. We have to analyze carefully each digital evidences, each source of information in order to see details that can make them not admissible, that may demonstrate the integrity has been compromised. Like, for example, inconsistent metadata.

Another point of a picture of a digital image might be the fact that the metadata say it is taken at a specific time at midnight last week. But for example, by chance, there is a calendar or a clock, whatever, that demonstrates the hour during that inside, that is inside the picture, that show a different hour. Then we have, at least we don't know what is the problem still, but at this very point, we know that there are some inconsistencies that need further investigation.

OK, this kind of detail can get out from analysis and verification. And of course, the correlation, we should distill information point from any source of evidence, from any digital evidence, and then create what is called a kind of timeline. What happened before, what happened after, what kind of apparatus, components, devices have been involved in this action.

In order to have a full list of actions, in order to understand if our reconstruction is sound, is admissible, is something that we can defend and no one can successfully challenge in a court of justice. OK, and for doing that, we need to extract a lot of information and put them together in a single timeline with lots of detail for each step in this timeline in order to understand the full process we are investigating on. And in doing this kind of operation, a recurring set, because we should be obsessed by this kind of mind frame, we should verify continuously the status of our evidence in order to understand, to be sure that each step of our analysis is performed on a fresh, correct, authentic piece of information.

Again, from the very first one to the last one, just before the presentation of our result. And this involves comparison of fresh and stored ashes, validation of the chain of custody that involves again ash comparison, but also the logical, that no logical point is missing in the timeline, in the full chain, from the management and also from the movement and documentation involved in the chain of custody and in the forensic image we have under our custody. In order to perform effective evaluation and create some correlation, there are some sources that are very important and those are metadata and timestamps that we may find in different points, like for example in a file system forensics we have metadata provided by the file system, by the operating system, by the file system itself that contains oftentimes stamps on the last access, the creation time, the modification time of a file, of any file on our file system.




Wer hat in einem deutschen 5.6-System auch diese Art von Informationen erarbeitet? Was sind die letzten Operationen und so weiter auf der Storage und so weiter? Wir können Metadaten in spezifischen File-Formaten helfen, wie zum Beispiel Formate, die von Fotos benutzt werden. Oft enthalten sie Metadaten wie die Zeit, in der die Fotografie aufgenommen wurde. Dies erlaubt es, die Timeline-Rekonstruktion und die Cross-Referenzen und Konsistenz-Checkungen das Kern der Evaluation-Phase zu sein.

Sourcen, von denen wir Informationen verstehen können, können enorm und wertvoll sein. Wir können Logs, Server-Logs, User-Device-Logs, Application-Logs, Exchange-E-Mails, Netzwerkträger und so weiter. Und in dieser Basis müssen wir signifikante Teile der Informationen abholen, meistens die Zeit, in der eine Aktion erfolgt wurde.

Dies ist immer nötig. Außerdem müssen wir die logischen Bedeutungen für die Tatsache abholen, dass diese Aktion erfolgt hat. Und hier, während der Untersuchung, beginnt der Forensik-Experte mit einem Set von Hypothesen, um zu erklären, was er sieht, warum diese Operation an diesem Zeitpunkt gemacht wurde und danach dieses, und dann dieses, und dann noch ein weiteres.

Dieses Set, das sich zusammenfasst, die Aktion, die sich der Forensik-Experte zusammenfasst, sollte irgendwie erklärt werden. Und dies beginnt, die Prüfungen zu führen, die der Forensik-Analyst ausüben wird. Und dies ist eine Art iterative Sequenz von Schritten bis zum Ende der Untersuchung, wenn idealerweise der Forensik-Experte eine komplette Erklärung von all den Daten hat, die er zusammenfasst und in eine Zeitlinie, in eine Zeitlinie, in ein Set von möglichen Flüssen, und keine weiteren Punkte sind noch offen, noch unerforscht, noch unerklärt.

Und dies wird das Ende der Forensik-Untersuchung sein. Ich habe es erwähnt, bis kein Punkt unerklärt bleibt. Und dies wird die Wissenschaft der antiforensischen Techniken die einige spezifische Aspekte abschließen und die die Erkennung spezifischer Daten schwierig machen können.

Wir sehen antiforensische Techniken als willens, aber es gibt in irgendeinem Sinne antiforensische Techniken, antiforensische Aspekte, die zu der Einführung von einigen Toolen Die Einführung ist eine typische antiforensische Technik. Und heutzutage ist es ziemlich inherent der Einführung eines modernen Operationssystems auf einem normalen Laptop oder Desktop, wo wir die Einführung der Daten auf den Harddrives ermöglichen können. Dies ist aufgrund der Definition Antiforensik.

Auch wenn wir es nicht ermöglichen, es auf Antiforensik zu schalten, ist die Einführung von vielen modernen Toolen inherent Antiforensik, weil es viel schwieriger ist, Daten zu erreichen. Gleich wie die Einführung von HTTPS, ist es viel schwieriger, ein Intrusion-Detektion-System in einer Organisation zu erreichen, weil viele Daten auf der Anwendungsebene unter Infrastruktur eingeführt werden. Dann kann ein Intrusion-Detektion-System die Daten auf der Anwendungsebene von 98-99% der kommenden Kommunikation innerhalb eines Netzwerks nicht überprüfen.

Und dann wird das Leben für sie, für das Intrusion-Detektion-System, viel schwieriger in diesem Bereich. Das Gleiche gilt für Antiforensik im modernen Kontext. Und das ist der technische Ansatz.

Für die Evaluation ist die Wissenschaft der erreichbaren Standards, der erreichbaren Standards innerhalb eines spezifischen Kontextes notwendig, um ein letztes Ergebnis zu erreichen, das erreichbar ist. Nicht nur technisch klar, sondern auch erreichbar in dem spezifischen Kontext. Was bedeutet das? Das bedeutet natürlich, dass ein Jurist es nicht akzeptiert, wenn er eine Grundrechte der Angestellten oder der Menschen, die in der Untersuchung beteiligt sind, aber auch nicht erreichbar ist von einem Prozedural-Punkt von Sicht, wenn ich zum Beispiel eine digitale Forensik-Untersuchung in einer Organisation betreue, die noch kein formales Verbrechen beteiligt ist, also nur für interne Ursachen, und wenn diese Untersuchung die Rechte der beteiligten Beteiligten Okay, also ist das nicht akzeptabel, nicht im Sinne, na ja, auch vielleicht, in dem Sinne, dass die Untersuchung im Fall einer Untersuchung nicht akzeptabel ist.

Aber es ist nicht akzeptabel, selbst in dem Sinne, dass es möglich macht, mögliche Schaden zu verursachen für die beteiligten Beteiligten, die die Organisation in der Antwort beurteilen können. Okay, also ist das etwas, das wieder ausgerutscht werden sollte. Zum Beispiel kann ich nicht alle Informationen bekommen, wer, ich weiß es nicht, an welchen Seiten in meiner Organisation oder an den Geräten der Organisation verbunden ist, die Privatsphäre der Beteiligten zu verursachen.

Wenn nicht unter einem spezifischen Mandat in einer spezifischen, naja, Untersuchung, die unter einer Polizei Umbrella ist, zum Beispiel. Okay, ich kann das nicht nur für interne Ursachen tun. Das ist ein anderes Bereich, in dem man akzeptabel sehen kann, was akzeptable oder verpflichtende Prozedure bedeuten.

Und natürlich diese Art von Vorsicht passt zu allen verschiedenen Aktionen, die ich durchführe während meiner Untersuchung. Ich kann, nach einem Schritt der Untersuchung, suchen für eine weitere Ursache für Beweise. Ich kann mich von einem Ort zu einem anderen suchen für eine Ursache für Beweise.

Ich habe die Wahl, die Chance, verschiedene Aktionen zu nutzen, um Informationen zu finden, zum Beispiel Zugang zu dem ganzen Set von Logos, die im Netzwerk-Gateway oder ansonsten anonymisieren, bevor ich meine Operation verfolge. Oder ich anonymiere alle von ihnen, aber nur die Angeklagten. Oder ich anonymiere ein Subset der Informationen dort, die nicht relevant sind für meine Untersuchung.

Okay, das kann sehr komplex werden, aus technischer Perspektive. Aber es muss zu der verfügbaren legalen Prozedur für den spezifischen Fall gehören, in dem ich mich beteilige. Und letztendlich, okay, ich habe all meine Evaluationen und Untersuchungen mit den wertvollen Standards und aus technischer Perspektive noch nicht am Ende der Untersuchung.

Denn ich brauche jetzt für mich wertvolle Beweise, was ich herausgefunden habe. Ich habe die Erklärung, keine Misspunkte. Ich habe all die antiforensischen Techniken und ich habe all die legalen, ethischen, technischen Standards für meine Untersuchungen Also, wenn ich der Jurist bin, dann wird der Fall auf eine Art und Weise Aber die Forensikexperte ist meistens nicht der Jurist, meistens nicht der gleiche Hintergrund eines Juristen, einer Kommission, eines Geschäftsführers, der den Rekord für die Entscheidung Dann, jetzt ist es nötig, zu erklären, was die Untersuchung herausgefunden hat.

In versuchen zu erklären, was meine Untersuchung ermöglicht hat, zu bestimmen, muss ich sehr klar sein, muss ich sehr klar im Kopf haben, was das Publikum meiner Präsentation ist. Und das würde viel verändern in dem, was ich in der Präsentation beginne, von der Form, ich benutze den technischen Jargon, ich erkläre in sehr vielen Details einige kleine Schritte meiner Untersuchung, oder vielleicht werde ich nur ausdrücken, was die Bedeutung meiner Untersuchung ist, vielleicht werde ich einige Hinweise mit weiteren Erklärungen verwenden, aber in der Form des Dokuments nur die abstrakten, hochwertigen, hochwertigen, ich meine, Ergebnisse, weil vielleicht der Punkt, der Publikum ist der CEO meiner Organisation oder ein Jurist, der unglaublich expert ist in Laue Mater, aber sehr nackt im technischen Jargon. Und also, wenn ich die die Zielgruppe meiner Präsentation betrachte, sollte ich meinen Verständnis für die Konsequenzen von technischen Details zum Beispiel, weil ich nur die Konsequenzen in einem Report oder auf das Gegenteil kann ich eine sehr detaillierte, feine Sequenz von sehr kleinen Schritten aus technischer Perspektive einem anderen Kollegen, der wieder die Präsentation , die ich verfolgt habe, und muss jeder Schritt mit jedem und identifizieren jedem Werkzeug, das ich benutze, um meine Untersuchung zu verfolgen.

Zum Beispiel haben wir auch gesehen in dem Szenario auf dem USB basierenden Exfiltration, den ich in der ersten Teil der Lektion können wir zum Beispiel benutzen, um ein Bit-by-Bit-Kopie db-Kommand und dc3 db zum Beispiel wenn ich nur in einem sagen ich benutze eine Art db-Kommand, aber ich benutze ein dc3 db-Kommand und ich sage das ist die Asche zum Beispiel wenn mein technischer Gegner diese Sachen sieht, meine Flagge wow du hast eine db-Kopie und du hast eine Asche aber du hast keine Kommande, die diese Asche also gibt es ein Problem hier gibt es eine verlorene Passage hier, weil ich vergessen habe, zu nennen, ich benutze ein dc3 db, das die Asche gleichzeitig der Kopie der Source ein kleiner Detail, kann sehr beeinflussen weil die Hypothesen vielleicht hast du diese Asche oder vielleicht oder selbst wenn in guter Wille du diese Asche nach vergessen zu tun in der richtigen Zeit und das kann eine echte Herausforderung eine wichtige während eines Tests okay, also wenn man sich wer ist die Zielgäste, ich sollte kreieren einen spezifisch geschaffenen Rekord sehr wahrscheinlich werde ich brauchen um viele verschiedene Rekorde auf vielen verschiedenen Niveauen von Abstraktionen verschiedenen Argumenten mit verschiedenen aufgezeichneten Punkten und so weiter was ich soll tun ist natürlich zweimal kontrolliert meine Daten es ist gut zu sein in einem Team mit mehr als einer Forensik Investigator hier, weil zum Beispiel wir können die Reaktion einer ist der einer kann die Bewertung und ein anderer macht den Doppelcheck von was der erste hat getan der kann zum Beispiel eine Recherche dass alle Daten erwähnt sind präsent werden ordentlich gestaltet werden ordentlich identifiziert und werden ordentlich interpretiert während all den Phasen der Untersuchung und auch der Bewertung und Erhöhung natürlich das kann sich einstellen an dem Fakt dass alle wichtige Beweise sind ordentlich identifiziert und ordentlich erklärt bedeuten zum Beispiel dass alle Korrelationen sind präsent und Geräusche sind ordentlich erhöhung sind ordentlich orientiert auf die Korrelation präsent in technischen Schritten durchgeführt der Untersuchung und naja das Fakt dass alle Korrelationen sind ordentlich orientiert auch bedeutet dass keine Untersuchung persönliche Interpretation sind präsent im Allgemeinen sollte es sein naja es kann sein in einem Report Experten Meinung Meinungen von einigen Experten aber dies sollte referenziert zu objektiven Fakten das am wenigsten sollte sehr wahrscheinlich korrekt wenn nicht korrekt für sicher während einige unbegründete Bemerkungen ist ein sehr großer Fehler weil es kann unterbrechen die ganze Glaubenswerte des Rekords also persönliche Interpretation unbegründete persönliche Interpretation eine Art Vergewaltigung sollte nicht überhaupt in diesem Rekord enthalten Nun wenn es gut ist in jedem Fall selbst wenn ich den Rekord in einem spezifisch geschaffenen mit einem spezifischen Set von Termen Auszeichnungen und so weiter sollte gut sein um jederzeit zurückzukommen zu dem naja behalten die Beziehung zwischen dem Inhalt des Rekords und dem unterliegenden Datum auf dem der Rekord basiert okay das kann in Termen von Auszeichnungen Auszeichnungen am Ende des Rekords oder die durch Linke überwunden im in dem Rekord und eine richtige Dokumentation dieser Auszeichnungen und der Rekord sollte auch gehalten werden okay das ist nur in dem Fall das ist ein spezifischer Fall wenn der Rekord für Geschäftsleute oder im Allgemeinen für jemanden sehr technisch bewusst ist die Details präsentiert verwendet während der Analyse aber jederzeit dieser Typ sollte möglich sein um für eine andere Meinung besser für eine andere Analyse und erhalten alle Daten verwendet für die Analyse die erfolgt in in diesem Rekord in diesem Rekord okay also auch dieses auch der Rekord sollte betrachtet als ein Komponent der Kette von Geschäftsleuten sollte überprüft für Integrität dann ein Asch des Rekords sollte evaluiert Asch der Ergebnisse Daten über wann es entstanden und auch die Verbindung mit den weiteren Rekorden sagen wir sollte betrachtet als Beweis und dann gestaltet richtig mit Integrität check präsent ebenfalls Fragen okay und diese sind eine Überprüfung der verschiedenen Phasen es ist ein Kind von einer Anleitung aber ja diese okay auf ich denke wenn ich nicht falsch bin letzte Woche als Material im Portal kann man finden ein Dokument genannt ja digital Forensik Case Study ein Beispiel von einem Fall von Insider Intellektuellen Eigenschaften Verbrechen oh gut zwei mal meine was ich dich fragen als ein Kind von Arbeit von möglichen Fällen zu üben selbst ist haben dieses Kind von Szenario da und das ist ein Kind von interaktives Spiel das wir können diskutieren nächstes Ergebnis ich würde sagen nächste Woche aber du kannst fragen für weitere Fragen oder kann hypothesisieren ein Komponent gegeben dieses Szenario du kannst fragen zum Beispiel einige Details oder kann hypothesisieren wenn du willst aber besser fragen unter den Evidenz Sourcen was Kind von Data kann man finden wenn du kannst suggerieren oder hypothesisieren ein Kind von Forensik Analysis abstrakt also keine technischen Details hier nicht sehr technische Details wir können diskutieren einige realistische Aspekte die du kannst auf diesem Szenario zu antworten zu den wichtigen Fragen zu den Forensik Wichtigen Fragen warum wie wo etc. das wir vorletzte Woche in diesem Szenario okay also ein hypothetischer Fall um zu bilden deine Idee wie zu anfangen ein möglicher Fall okay also der Flur ist dein du kannst darauf arbeiten und fragen für Details während dieser letzten 20 Minuten und nächste Woche können wir diskutieren ein mögliches Ergebnis einige deiner Ergebnisse oder was ich in mir mit diesem Fall ziemlich klar Frage ja bitte ja sollte es auf dem Portal nicht falsch der Name ist digital forensic Case Study kannst du auf dem Portal finden okay perfekt und ja ich denke es kann mehr als 20 Minuten aber wir können weiter mit diesem nächsten nächste Woche der Punkt jetzt ist anfangen denken und wie organisieren deine Untersuchung oder wenn du in einer Zeit es ist eine gute Zeit zu leben und sagen tschüss zu deinem Kurs okay du kannst

