

Okay, let's start. First of all, as usual, any question or remarks about what we discussed yesterday or even previously, if you want to share remarks or, well, doubts or insights, feel free to do that now and in general during the lectures, anytime, even by email if you want. If no specific question, I'll get back with what we introduced last week, which is a nice forensic case study, which is a pretty, well, not, we do not have all the details here, but we have a reasonable amount, reasonably detailed scenario in which we have some evidences or something that can lead to identify evidences in this kind of insider intellectual property theft that we are called to investigate on, from shockwave analytics to basal core system.

I presented the scenario last time and asked to reflect on it, which is, very briefly, there is a company, Shockwave Analytics, that specializes in predictive threat detection tool for finance sector and during, just after the development of a machine learning engine named Project Triton, that we generated in the ideal strategic mind of the leader of the company, a competitive advantage, but a very bad thing happened. At some point, a competitor, basal core system, announced a new product with a very huge amount of similarities that are by far more than a simple suspect due to the architectural coherence with the Project Triton. And so, after that, the Shockwave Analytics started a kind of internal investigation and internal review in order to find out if something happened just some days after the announcement, which would be a very relevant damage from an economic perspective, in order to see if something might, well, drive to suspect that some proprietary secrets have been stolen by the organization. 

And after an internal review, yes, this was the result that a senior software engineer, John Matthews, is a very relevant suspect to be the author of the exfiltration of the data. And well, there are a lot of interesting stuff that prove that. And this is something that somehow you can hypothesize due to the level of abstraction of our scenario.

The question that we should reflect on are the basic questions that we encounter, who, where, when, how, why acted in a malicious way. And this is our goal in this scenario. We have a set of already collected, let's say, even if you want, due to the freedom that I left you, you may hypothesize even more. 

But basically, we already established, accomplished the first phases of a forensic investigation, the identification of the sources, the collection and acquisition, basically. And so, in this scenario, I've identified the laptop, the company laptop that John used to work, used to drive on the John desk, as well as company-related logs like firewall, like file server, like window, like email server, and also human resources, well, interaction with John himself. And yeah, as well as Windows security system, even logs. 

This was my input last week. And well, I'm happy to see what you hypothesized. I also updated, and we can discuss on that, what I plan to do is, well, use this hour as a kind of, this time, as a kind of lab. 

So, while I go among you, I also updated on the portal some more specific input. Well, just let me know, raise the hand who worked on this case and make some update on the scenario, develop the possible hypothesis and findings, just for me to have an understanding. If some, at least someone did some work on that, who did some work, can raise the hand. 

Just, okay. Okay. Well, some of you. 

Okay. So, for the rest of the guys, I have an updated version with more details, a possible flow of details. And what I am asking you is to use this, which is one possible data on this kind of scenario and try to reflect on it and interpret the data and find out further findings on the base of the new set of data. 

Okay. And also for who did some work on this abstract case, it would be nice also to compare, for example, commenting or, well, reviewing if my possible set of input can be as realistic as the ones that you hypothesized or less, or if you detailed some more, some specific points and so on. Okay. 

I leave time to, I leave you time to work while I'm happy to go and discuss with who already developed something. Okay. Pretty clear. 

The data, just to show you very briefly, in addition that you can find now on the portal are related to more details on the specific sources of information, like what you can find in the laptop, USB, et cetera, et cetera. And also a set of already organized events in what we know as a timeline. Okay. 

That I'm asking you to add a little and provide your interpretation of these sets of data. Okay. And we have some pages of that.

You find some from time to time interpretation with a question mark. And here I'm asking you, what kind of interpretation can you give to this set of events? Okay. And this is work for everyone. 

But meanwhile, I will discuss a little about the, your work for who did that during last week. Okay. Any question or doubts? Otherwise you can work on that. 

Okay. So I would say nice results. Many of you introduced the sensible hypothesis and performed well, a nice kind of investigation with sound consequences about what we can see as a possible cause, as a possible motivation, as a possible source of evidence, what we are able to find around one specific point and so on.

So I would say nice job. Even if different, I remark again, this is just one possible one possible solution of this abstract case. Well, and about that, I heard the very nice assumption, like in my view, John is the evil one in this case. 

But from some of you, the real evil here is inside Basil Corr that corrupted John and used John in order to infiltrate inside shockwave system, maybe blackmailing the poor John and threatening him and his family, for example. Okay. Which is a nice aspect. 

I appreciate that it is possible. I suggest a different course of events, but why not? Okay. So in our case, we have a nice source of evidence.

They are, this is something that in practice you should obtain in the initial phase of an investigation, a list of evidence that can resemble like this one of sources of evidence. And you can start, according to your experience, to hypothesizing what you can find inside any source. Like, for example, if you know the Windows system, you may know that you can find out information about the execution of the application and what kind of devices has been connected to the device, to the machine. 

If you know how a firewall works, you can extract from the logs information about the inbound and outbound connection. And so on. Okay. 

So it's important, as some of you noticed, to have a good knowledge of a system and of the internal mechanism that an operating system or even a famous widespread application uses in order to perform the operation. This is especially true, for example, for the prefetch files that are not so well known inside the Windows system, but very important from a forensic perspective. I wonder, okay, no, it's not so quick in changing the slides. 

Okay, here on the timeline. So in, according to this timeline, we have hypothesized the fact that John is the malicious one and start to look for different job opportunity and we can find clues of that inside social activities. This is something that we can find using, for example, even by using, in a different scenario, open source intelligence. 

Okay, we can see posts of suspect activities on Facebook, whatever, in order to see if there are actions that corroborate our hypothesis and our reconstruction of a set of events. In this case, we can find this kind of evidence, not through open source intelligence, but directly inside the image of our devices, like, for example, inside the laptop image, where we can find are actions like Google searches and that allow to understand he was looking for options outside and how to accomplish these options, like non-competent enforceability in order to understand the consequences of having a job in a competing organization. Okay, so this is something that, as well as the human resource record in which John resigned, we can see that there is a window of a period of opportunity in which John can use his internal knowledge of the organization in order to obtain some nice gift, let's say, that can give to other competitors in the same industry in order to have a better salary.

Okay, this is something that we can find from activity on the John's machine and on the record correlating with the human resource interaction. Okay, then, from this very moment, we should investigate the facts because we have a window of opportunity for John and, in fact, we see on the 8th of March some unusual activity, like access in a period of time very unusual after work time, after our access, which is strange and suspect and, in particular, we can see, thanks to the prefetch creation of this 7zfm file, that tested a compression tool. The interpretation here, since there are no real compression, is test if the system works. 

Okay, our interpretation is, okay, John is testing what can access and if it can compress it. John was reasonably not so bad in leaving traces but probably, as many normal users, does not know that this kind of traces might be recorded inside a Windows log, inside a Windows system, like the case of prefetch. Since prefetch is not very well known among you, a brief discussion around that. 

What are prefetch files inside Microsoft Windows? They are files that optimize the execution during the startup of an application of the performance. How? Listing the correlated files that might be needed by the application when owned, as well as some metadata that describe when this might be likely executable. So, they speed up the launch of an application because many components of this application are already in the central memory when the application is clicked by the user, is launched by the user. 

So, it appears that the run starts much more quickly than uploading, than running all the components, transferring all the components from hard drive, from the hard disk to the central memory, just at the moment in which I choose as a user to run an application, and then appears much more quickly. These files have the form, probably speaking, of the program name plus a code which is basically an hash derived from the executable path, like, for example, chrome.x and set of strange characters that are an hash. In the previous case, we have 7zfm.x plus the hash with the final extension of pf prefetch.

Inside prefetch, there are many possible interesting information from a forensic perspective, like what is the executable that has been executed, which is something that in our case is enough, or the number of execution of that program, the last run time stamp, when it was run for the last time, and in recent operating system versions, more than one, up to eight recent executions time stamp. So, this is very suitable to really recover, to construct the timeline. The dependencies, in order to understand the fact that can be accessed during the startup. 

Another important information in our case, the volume information from where the program is executed. Why in our case is important? Because, for example, the term can help us to determine if the program has been executed from a USB drive, from an external drive, instead of the central system. And again, this might be a kind of behavior that an attacker has as the external drive with executable plugged into a system and run external programs in order to leave few traces inside the system, for example. 

Okay, basically that. And, as I said, this can help for a lot of information because in a folder, well, usually this kind of program can be found in a specific folder inside the Windows system, like usually the Windows prefetch folder. Okay, and there we have all the prefetch files that have been created by Windows. 

So, we can reconstruct a pattern, a behavior that the suspect adopted on a system, seeing what has been executed. Like, for example, the execution of a PowerShell command, then the execution of some processes of a compression program in a sequence, and also the time of the sequence. The sequence might be useful by itself because we may see a pattern, a typical pattern of abuse, or even the time in which those components have been executed, having even more detailed information on the pattern adopted by the suspect. 

That can allow the identification of attacker pattern, but also of anomalous pattern that rides a flag that we can use to identify a suspect or focus our investigation on a specific point, on a specific set of agents, for example. Like, similarly to what we can identify here about strange time of actions, okay, the prefetch allows us to identify this kind of information and, again, the fact that an external device is usable because prefetch contains also, as I said a few seconds ago, volume device information. Like, I used Nmap from my pendrive, I used Netcat, I used a K-login system, an application to modify the credential inside the system, okay, from my pendrive. 

Or, on the contrary, I used the tool and then I deleted it. Still, in the prefetch file, I can, in the window prefetch folder, I can find evidences that this kind of files, even if deleted by the system, have been used. Okay, so that's a good source of information inside Windows operating system. 

Just a small focus since it was not very well known by everyone. Getting back to our timeline, then we have, on 10th of March, the first test attempt in which we can find traces of the plugin of a pretty or reasonably large pendrive and operation on the project, on the Triton




Stored on the file server and the creation of a suspect. Okay, we have here some, well, this is useful. What for John, let's say calling something like this which might be very suspect, it is useful also for us to understand what John is doing.

In a real scenario, this might happen with the hypothesis that John was overconfident of being able to delete or was not aware of the consequences from the perspective of details that he may leave on the system during this kind of action, okay? According to what also many of you said, John was not a fully aware guy, according to what they did about the consequences and the traces that he was leaving in the system, okay? We can make this hypothesis, we can conclude that. So from a forensic perspective is not a big challenge this kind of case, we can find pretty easily evidences of his actions. And in particular, after a few time from having created this folder and having downloaded the most part of the Triton project created an archive, encrypted and again, we have traces of it in the prefetch file in the master file table of MTFS file system and also inside the window registry of operation.

What is the interpretation here? The poor John is trying to encrypt the content of the project Triton before exfiltration, okay? To compress and encrypt. Basically, if we can see the size, no, still not, okay. Yeah, basically to do the two staffs.

And then copy it to the USB. And here, well, we can interpret the two staffs that, well, some of you was confused reasonably by this couple of action because they are, this is a kind of redundant set of action but might have some sort of logic because imagine John is doing a kind of last attempt to exfiltrate this data. So probably was trying to avoid the possibility that one single process might get wrong and then the transfer exfiltration fail, okay? So use both the transfer through USB pen drive and also sending email with the archive in encrypted format, okay? Again, this is not a very clever set of action because in this case, we have the double possibility to find out the traces of the John's action, okay? So from a forensic investigator, this is a very nice news but from the John perspective is not the cleaver possible set of action.

So copy the archive and also send it by email. And by the way, trying to understand just beforehand how send large email with Gmail, okay? For some reason started using the USB channel but well, maybe was unsure that everything went correctly and then use it as a double source of security from the perspective of being secure to receive the archive, use it also the personal Gmail to receive it. And of course, due to this email sending, the firewall is capable to identify a section.

Of course, maybe John knows that the traffic is encrypted then you cannot access it. The firewall cannot access the content of that but still is capable to identify a very unusual pattern here descending at just after midnight of many gigabytes of data, very, very suspect, okay? And well, just a few minutes after that try to, we can interpret as an attempt to destroy traces using a tool to erase the data. This eraser.exe tool, okay? Just after having look for the best files should have their windows free that can download that can be downloaded easily but, and also trying to understand if we can erase all sorts of evidences here.

But these are directed against him because we can interpret this kind of set of action like a clear attempt of, like a clear evidence of willingness of being acting according not by an error or a possible good kind of with a good objective in mind but instead being aware of having done something bad and trying to destroy the traces of this kind of actions. And so just a few days after, we may see that the same USB has been inserted but no further information or actions on that until this news that started the investigation. Okay, so in a recall, remembering, recalling the questions that I presented in during the lesson if we want to try to answer to the fundamental question of digital forensics, we can summarize about what happened the copy of sensitive data using two channels to exfiltrate them, email and USB in the form of an encrypted archive and also trying to adopt some unsuccessful in this case, anti-forensic technique.

The set of evidence, according to my timeline and not yours, some of you, as I said hypothesized a much bigger involvement of basal industries in this case, according to my timeline, it appears that John willingly started to search possibility to increase the income from his work and started how can exfiltrate some data from the company, from Shockwave alone because Artifact shows only the involvement of John Matthew user profile, no particularly actions from the basal core organization. And even this may be, no one of you suggested that but another possibility might be that John was compromised for example, by malware or another more cleaver agent use John as a kind of design victim of the action. But according to the finding I presented, no information inside any logs allow to hypothesize any kind of compromise, okay? No malware action, no strange data, no connection to strange IP addresses that might be a kind of a common and control connection of a malware, no signs from any antivirus that we might hypothesize installed, no strange behavior from any other agent according to the logs, et cetera, et cetera.

So evidently he was acting alone. When did it take place? Okay, we have seen that everything we have a kind of pre-recognizance phase but the exfiltration itself was very strict in just two days in the final week of work of John, okay? Yeah, you are free to put also some previous information here if you want to explain in detail also the motivation and the findings that corroborate this motivation that has John in order to perform this set of action, okay? So we may include also the events, the activities of John in contacting other organization in order to highlight that John was willing and interested in having a better job, okay? So we may put also this date but the exfiltration itself happened in this pretty short time period. Well, about where we said that John has access and a good amount of privileges in accessing data and the identification shows that this happened inside the company premises.

John physically went in or being in the office where everyone else left the job place before acting or went after work. This is not clear. I did not detail that you may choose whatever you want.

And after that access to the file and exfiltrated the data through USB and by mail. Some of you hypothesize that connected to the VP, for example, through the VPN and perform the action. This is not corroborated by VPN logs.

We do not take this kind of log and did not mention these in this case but this is another possible scenario. I can connect, for example, through an SSH command line tool then I start with a command through my command line interface the execution of, well, SSH is not very usual for connecting to a Windows machine but I might have an SSH server on the Windows machine. Yes, I can or I can connect through a remote desktop application and then start to run the same set of information.

In this case, I should not be able to insert the USB but I may send the exfiltrated data by mail. So this is a different but another possible scenario. Well, we discussed why in order to have an improvement on the salary, in a sense, financial motivation and career advancement incentive to work for Basel Core about how we discuss a bit in detail.

Well, this scenario is about technical analysis in about the legal assessment we should have more important steps that can be involved and that might be proved in a court of justice. And even with this set, we have, let's say, technical good ground but, well, this might take months or years to be proved. And during all this time, we should also use what is not mentioned here but we should manage, create and manage the chain of custody and the different digital evidences with a lot of care.

Like, for example, using properly our tool. For example, I said we have the image of the USB, of the USB pen drive but if, for example, we need to perform any kind of operation on the USB image, we should copy it and maybe performing this kind of examination that alter the content of USB. For example, we can flash this image on a real USB in order to investigate on the content.

Of course, this change a lot the metadata of this USB pen. Then we need to copy our image to another image before starting this kind of work. And if we copy that, we should use a right blocker, properly configured and properly admissible in a legal assessment, a certified one.

And this is just an example of what in reality we should do in order to avoid that even a technically sound conclusion is nullified, is not resulting a not admissible one in a court of justice. And this is the very technical. What is important in a legal assessment is also the consciousness and the intentionality of a suspect.

Otherwise, the final verdict might be very different. So this is another important part. And for example, what can be refunded by the organization can be very different if this is a kind of error from the suspect or a strong consciousness and intentionality to perform this damaging action.

And well, in a legal assessment is important trying organize your finding in a way that other possible explanation are very unlikely. Okay, and this is also why I asked you to hypothesize the word by your imagination in order to propose possible alternatives. Because this kind of work is something really useful in creating an explanation of a forensic investigation because the counterparts will try to demonstrate different possible alternatives.

Like, yeah, okay, I created an archive of Triton but this was in the interest of the organization just to be sure that no data would be erased deleted by error or compromised or just to have another backup, okay? And you should be ready to handle this kind of alternative explanation. So your imagination is an important component here. And well, in an organization after a forensic investigation is good to have also a kind of recommendation to improve the posture of the organization after an incident.

Like, for example, in this case we may propose some of them like, well, the access restriction was likely far from perfect. We might hypothesize the implementation of a role-based access control. So for example, an engineer like John cannot access to the whole project but just to some parts that are needed for the work.

This is very easy. We may have a more restrictive possibility to access to device. Like, for example, in the main organization there is no possibility to mount, to insert, to plug in external devices like USB1.

Exactly to prevent the exfiltration, the physical exfiltration of data, okay? We may have some kind of monitoring system that rise a flag in case of anomalies behavior like send outside at midnight 14 gigabytes of data. Or even we can focus the possibility to move to transfer data only to non-sensitive one to employ data loss prevention system that restrict the access to specific blocks of data. And this connected to properly configured alert system that send a phone call, a WhatsApp message, an SMS, whatever to the security administrator in case of anomalous attempts, behavior sending access attempts.

Okay, those are pretty simple real world mitigation strategies that can prevent this kind of incident. And well, we approach the mostly the analysis examination phase in this nice lab exercise. But in general, we have as a final phase the presentation of the results.

So an explanation with properly organized data depending on who is the audience of our presentation that contains a different our answers, a different level of abstraction. For example, for the CEO, we might have just a few technical details and instead this kind of mitigation list to allocate the budget for them for improving the security posture of the organization. While for the legal attorney of the organization, we might have the list of damage and just the evidences that allow to identify John as a suspect, okay.

For any different receiver of our presentation, we should have a different set of claiming and a different level of abstraction. And we might want to attach as a kind of appendix more details depending on the level of awareness or of skillfulness of the receiving party of our outcome, of our deliverable, okay. And again, this is part of a forensics investigation and not a negligible one because the fact that even a good investigation is not understood by the receiving party might lead to disastrous outcome, okay.

It's a very important like all the other ones. Okay, that's it. Any final question or remarks? If not for today, we can conclude.

I'll be right back.

