Okay, I think we can start with this last, for me at least, lesson before, well, with you, I mean, before this holiday. So, as usual, any questions or remarks that you want to share and discuss with the rest of the audience? Okay, not at the moment, but feel free to come and interact at any time, as usual. Also from home, I see no question, that's nice. Okay, last week we were discussing about the mounting process, which is the process, well, we put in the context of, we are talking about the line of having your device with understanding what you need in order to perform investigation and perform investigation in a sound and admissible, legally speaking, manner in order to avoid some counteract from the opposite party.

And then you need to understand what is needed in order to set up a lab or have your compliant devices and software with you in order to perform whenever required investigation and avoid common mistakes. Okay, so this requires, of course, knowledge, be aware of what are the steps that you need to perform in order to impede the possible evidence damage, but also the hardware that you need in order to perform the operation. So we discussed about some useful requirements that your tools need to have, and now we are flowing more toward the file system forensics, subfield of digital forensics, and we're now focusing on at least a general understanding of the interaction between the operating system and the underlying file system.

So we may appreciate the fact that there is no single file system under a specific operating system. Of course, in some cases, you more easily can appreciate a strong correlation between the operating system and the underlying file system, like in the case of Windows that very frequently maintain NTFS nowadays as underlying file system. Not only this, or, well, on the opposite side, you have, well, not exactly on the opposite, but you may have an open system like Linux, which is by a number of possible different file systems. So it's good to understand the details, the, well, at the very least, the fact that you may have different file system, and then you may have different meta information, different behavior.

So different operation might have different impacts on, on the, on the stored information in your, in your storage, in the storage under, under investigation. And, well, also the, this, uh, underline structure is, uh, abstracted, uh, in many details, by the, the file and, for a system conceptual metaphor that, uh, allow an operating system to, to, to, to provide the same set of system calls and, uh, to the, to the end user, uh, a common set of tools to interact with, uh, with the storage, um, somehow hiding behind this kind of, uh, middleware, middle layer, which is the, the, the file system implementation, uh, at the, the file system layer implementation, and the file metaphor itself, uh, that you may use to access the bytes on, on the storage.

And, uh, it's good. The, the mounting operation is exactly this kind of operation that, uh, put, uh, uh, a storage or a part of a storage into the, the, the tree of information, the folder, the directory tree of information that you might interact with, uh, at, at the end user level, but also at application level, most, most of the time. And it's good to understand that this, uh, um, the target information of this process, of the mounting process may very well be a normal file system, which is the file system in which is organized your, your, your drive, but maybe also, uh, an external device that you just plug it in through a common port, like a USB port or any other kind of interface may. And this, in some sense, may also, uh, uh, comprise the network file system, which is interacted through, uh, a network card, but if you mount it apart the performance that you may experience usually less, uh, effective than your local storage, you interact even at network and network level with the same metaphor.

Exactly like a normal file or folder you have in your, in your physical location. We mentioned the, the basic operation, which is the, the mount and the basic parameters, which is you, you need a file system, a support file system, a mount point, that is the starting point from which you will see your freshly attached device. We mentioned the fact that, uh, the mountain system is not just a kind of label that say, okay, now you can access your, your information from here, from this mount point, from this mountain point, but also is, uh, a set of, uh, operation that, uh, for example, check for file, for, for, for errors on the storage. And this is something that a digital forensic analyst need to be aware of because this, uh, even the, the checking of information and possibly the correction, the attempt to correct some basic data might modify and erase some relevant, uh, information metadata that might be relevant depending on what we as investigators are looking for. Of course. But in principle, this is, uh, uh, uh, affecting a kind of affecting even just mounting, uh, uh, uh, a storage is an affecting as some effect on, on, on the storage. So you need to be aware of this kind of, uh, uh, uh, the, the, the sub-operation that, uh, the, the sub-operations have the modification, sub-modification that, uh, that the mounting operation might, might do on, on storage.

and well the knowledge of file system and okay we will address this later next, well after this vacation, the fact that different file system might have different organization from the very basic and then the organization of file system might provide different way of hiding information. But at the moment we are more interested in the fact that to access a storage we might have different options, the mounting one is just one, is the normal, is the basic one that an end user most of the time, 99% of the time used to access information. But this is not the option that is, well, at least 99% of the time done by a digital forensic investigator, because if you want for example access the data bit by bit in order to do a forensically sound image as we discussed, the mounting operation is not what we are looking for. So we need to ensure, for example, if we are using a device that the device is set up in order to not mount unless required the information or mount in a specifically configured way that do not alter the content of the storage. A normal user wants this kind of alteration of alteration, because for example, do not want some errors in files or in the interaction with the storage. Instead, we might be interested in those errors, because maybe allow to... Yes, please.

How special is the garbage collection for people for that people to recover the legal files? Oh, well, exactly. This is why you should have your operating system properly configured. For example, if we are talking about files, we need to put the file in read-only mode in order to avoid any possible interaction from the operating system. And I'm not talking only about I'm not talking about put in read-only mode using this kind of command that puts the device in read-only inside the file system structure, but we should put in read-only also the very device, because also the direct access is possible at operating system level. Normally, an operating system does not interfere directly with that device, trying to optimize it if we did not mount it. But in order to be sure, we should put also, if we do not want any modification of that, also the very device in read-only mode. The block block device, I mean. Okay, that's a kind of... This is in the line of the precaution that we need to have before starting an investigation. It's exactly what I mentioned when I say an investigator, that's a forensic expert needs to know the order and the software, meaning how the software behaves, how it needs to be configured in order to preserve the evidence. That's the point.

And in case of interaction from file system level, we need to put in the operation in read-only mode. Okay, we discussed about the set of operation last week, of mounting and also unmounting again. Again, this is something that you need to be aware of. The fact that maybe some operations that write, for example, operation, append, any kind of alteration, modification on the storage, might actually still not be done after we command the operation. Because, for example, for optimization of the operating system, the fact that maybe at the very same moment, other input-output operations are ongoing. And then these modifications need to be queued, waiting until the resource, the output channel, the output storage, the output bus, whatever, any component will be free and will be possible to perform the operation.

And this might take seconds or even minutes in some cases. And a forensic investigator, for example, need to be aware that this operation might be ongoing in a particularly hectic situation and avoid to perform errors like unplugging a device if not sure that a relevant operation is actually executed because this might compromise information at the information level, the very content of a file, but also create inconsistent integrity status, meaning inconsistencies between the content, the size, the size, the position of the files, of the folders, and the metadata that describes those files, those content, and so on.

The amount of metadata might be very much different depending on the specific file system. And in some cases might be relevant and might create consistent inconsistencies. Okay? And those are basically the description of the unmounting operation at a high level that requires caution in unplugging and removing storage after relevant operation on that. Well, we were discussing about the command line and system. This is, again, why I'm talking about the need to understand the underlying operating system.

Because any operating system has a specific set, a quite large set of different tools that can be used to to interact with the storage. Coming from, correctly put it in the context of the other possible storage present on a device, from information on the structure of the storage, like how many partitions, the size of the partitions, the file system type of different storage parts, info metadata access in order to understand when was accessed, what kind of part of this storage has been accessed, in which way writing files reading information, etc. And I just mentioned here some of them, like the message, we send that lsblk, fdisk, etc.

Well, and this is, by the way, also nowadays you might find a lot of information from this kind of command, command. Like, for example, if I run and just an lsblk command, I obtain a huge amount of information because also virtual file systems might be comprised in this kind of information. Well, also, we have subtleties like loop file system that allow to mount as a device sub-part of your file system and can be used in a separate way, which is nice to organize your system, etc. We will touch this concept in the next few weeks.

Getting back to the mount, as I said, mount is a nice command that allows us to understand a lot of information. I can even too much information. We can see here from mount a pretty huge amount of file system on my device. And even of a different kind, not always. Actually, a real file system, some sometimes just something useful to be accessed pretty directly and quickly, but sometimes work on virtual, etc. As I said, we will just touch some examples. This is just to show you how many different flavors of information we may have information we may have under a mounting umbrella. Again, this is in order to treat different, very different kind of information in a coherent way, and this allows a lot of simplification from an application perspective that we will always find a specific, the same kind of metaphor to access information. We discussed, for example, this command it is clear for everyone, right? What's the meaning of that? And also of the parameters. Okay, perfect.

Just a quick detour on the device types, since we are talking about the possibility to put that in, to see any of them in the same way. The origin of that is the file metaphor, which is a metaphor largely adopted in the operating system field to interact with storage. The underlying what's behind the file that the operating system interacts to, might be pretty much different, both from a physical structure and also from a semantic point of view.

The more general device types are block and character devices. The block is, well, what many of us imagine when this is the same thing to a storage, which is something that might be a huge amount of magnetic fields, a huge amount of of electronically shaped memory cell that might be a tape and and... well... no, a block device cannot be a tape, sorry. I'm meaning both block and character. A block device is instead something that, regardless of how it is organized in terms of physical structure, magnetic fields, electronic condensator, and so on, can be accessed in any different, to any different points at any time.

So this is what is named random access and this is the very basic in order to access information in an effective way. This is usually organized in block, that's why it's named block device, that have a physical shape, might be a cylinder on a set of magnetic plates, might be an area that is served by the same cables. Regardless of the physical structure, it might be accessed in block, meaning that I can extract one block, the unit, the atomic unit for the block size, with a single operation. And our hard drives are of this type most of the time, almost always.

A character device instead is a device that allows for a continuous stream of information. I can read or I can write, let me say, information in a sequence. I cannot modify and change in a random way, putting or setting or getting information at any place. An example of that, a pretty common one, for a common interaction with a computer, are terminals, a common console in which we have a stream and we can input a stream of information information from and to there. We have, I also mentioned here, a possibility to see different type of device, what kind of command, just as a possible example, can be used in order to see what kind of device of a specific type we may have.

In our, in our computer. Like for example, here, the set of devices, at the moment, available on my file, on my computer, on my laptop. Note that I'm querying the device directly here. I'm not querying the mounted files. And this is a possibility. And this is a possibility. Another, I can see the other, the usual list command, again, here in dev. And I have a lot of them. And we, and I may see information on that at the very beginning of the output of the list command. And of course, I can check for the character one, which is what I'm doing right now.

Now, at the very beginning, I can see the C. Port might be null, nice one, which is a character, but a very specific device. You can see the console. So, at the moment, we are not interested in the specificity of the different device, but how to again in order to virtualize and allow multiple instances of the same device and so on. At the moment we are not interested in specificity of the different device but how to see what kind of devices are there. Among the other, let me see if among the other, I may have also, which is again pretty nice, network devices and this allows the interaction versus the network in order to handle the packets using a high level system call like socket, the socket system call in order to establish a TCP exchange and to see the flow onto the network as a kind of byte stream that an application can manage currently. A typical example for a network device is the device for the wireless network, for example. I'm curious to see which, oh yes, W-L-O-1 etc. and those are somehow normal kind of devices but we may have a special purpose and serial device that are useful for specific operation like, for example, to have random to obtain pseudo random sequences or to have or to drop away output which we are not interested or to get specific flow of data like dev0 or to, as I mentioned, the loop device or to manage, see from the system perspective, specific part of the directory tree as a device, as a separate device. So, we may result in a nice kind of circuit that starts from from a device, become a part of the directory tree, then become again another, then one sub part of that, become again another device of the loop type, and this is useful to organize operations and interactions as I said.

In general, those are features that can be useful from the perspective of some software, like obtain a random number, that somehow realize a function, provide a function, but are not related to any specific storage or another kind of abstraction that the operating system provides us to perform a specific kind of operation. Also, which is interesting, the memory, the central memory, both at user or kernel level, can be accessed through a device of a special purpose type.

It's like those two, dev-mem and dev-kmem are devices that allow access to the memory and then, for example, can be used when we want to dump, when we want to snapshot the content of the memory. For example, we will see volatility framework, which is a framework to acquire the content, to acquire and then analyze the content of the memory. And we may well use this kind of device to extract the content of the memory, to have a snapshot that after we can analyze. So, it is important to understand that many, that one, the file is an abstraction.

So, it's a kind of interaction mediated by an abstraction, which is something that we may want to trespass somehow, when we investigate in a digital forensic case. And also, that many different files can exist and propose, interact with the underlying system, allow different kind of behavior. And that, so they are not just a kind of more or less mediated interaction tool with the underlying storage. Well, about the access to that at rest is more or less the discussion we are doing today, that we've already done today.

We may access to data through the file system metaphor, through the mounting process, then after we mounted a device to a specific mount point, and then we may use our common normal ones, like our file system navigator, using our visual tools, seeing folder and files inside the device that we want to access. Given the fact that, on that device, there is a file system supported by our operating system, which is not always the case, even if most of the time is the case. And then, use usual operating system provided information.

Read, write, delete, system call, or command line, like LS, CP, MV, change, permissions, etc. This is normal behavior. Well, even in a digital investigation, we use a lot of this kind of interaction when we are no longer interested in seeing details that can be... Where after we have seen the original information and we are more interested at this point on the content of, for example, application, for example, emails, etc., etc. Normal application level information. So, this is common behavior in a digital investigation. But, usually, before, or at least with a device that has not been manipulated, modified by this kind of investigation, we access to components through what I call here direct access.

For example, under a Unix type of operating system, we have the list of block devices present and accessible to a user at a specific point in time, which is inside the dev directory. Okay? All of them, in a normal setup, are there. Of course, I can change the setup of my operating system, put them in a different folder, put restrictions about who can see them, who can access them. Then, of course, a digital forensic investigator, that is doing an investigation, has completely under control, the device that is using.

So, has, of course, administration, route level permission, that allow to see all the devices connected, attached to the workstation, to the forensic workstation. And, of course, also has read, write, when needed execution, but usually read and write are the relevant ones, access to the unstructured data that are there. And, well, this is direct access. Direct access means, of course, that you can see anything in there at bit level precision. But, also, that this information might be not so clear, not structured in a normal way.

So, there might be a lot of work, theoretically speaking, that is needed to understand what's there. And, this is a very interesting part in a digital forensic investigation. Also, of course, you need to be well aware of what you are doing, because you can interact with files, try to modify in order to understand better something. Why not? This is, well, common behavior. Of course, you have no operating system help in doing that. So, you need exactly to understand what you are doing. Otherwise, you will corrupt data. Not so usual, but possible. Or, you, basically, will not understand what you are seeing, which is much more common in a forensic investigation.

And, well, with tools, GG is, we perfectly know what is it, is used as parameter, if you remember the example that we used, this kind, at input, at output level, or both of them, at direct access, because this is needed for a bit-by-bit copy. X-damp, instead, is a nice tool that allows you to access the very byte content and propose a representation in hexadecimal format that, for a human being, usually is more user-friendly than just a bit-by-bit expression of the content of a block. Of a block device. Both of them are useful and interesting to be used.

Well, for example, well, just to be practical, even if at a very high level, if we want to interact with devices inside a Linux distribution. For example, those are two commands that are good to use. And, well, that, for example, in a forensic distribution, most of the time are already set up by default, and instead you should change it if needed. So, if we want to interact with devices at the initial phases of an investigation, and we want to maintain the content at every level of our storage, we can mount it as read-only.

And this is the command we already seen, for example, to attach as evidence one, this specific device. device. But also, which is more interesting, less normal user knowledge, we should put using IOCTLS system calls, the status of the very device as read-only. Okay. And this is, for example, a command line tool, normally very, pretty widespread in many distribution, security and forensic-aware distribution, which is block dev. We may investigate and also set parameters. We should, this is the flag to set this device as red-only, set-er-o, set-red-only.

And, well, in some distribution, we may have even graphic tools, like unblock inside Cain, in a, in a old version, not sure if still there, of Cain. Just to, to, to, to, to witness the, the, the posture of Cain as a nice and user-friendly distribution for forensic investigation. This is just a setup, it's not a strong barrier. Of course, if a malicious actor acquired the process of your physical wall station, can set-back to read-write the device, can unmount, remount your device as read-write, etc. Those are only operation for us, as digital forensic investigator, to avoid the modification of our storage.

That's the point. Okay. Okay. And, ah, well, this is, again, some practical remarks. So, when we have, when, in a normal flow of forensic investigation, we have, ah, ah, the possibility to create an image, like, for example, using the DD command. Like, DD, input, devsdb1, for example, output, I don't know, evidence1, not slash mount, just evidence1 dot DD. Meaning, DD, the command tool DD, is copying bit by bit the content of devsdb1 into a file named evidence dot DD.

And those will be a bit by bit image of the file. Normal software tools allow to interact with this image in a more or less direct way. For example, seeing, pay attention, in this image there will be an exact copy bit by bit. This might be, this conceptually might be clear, but the consequences, the implications of that, might not be immediately obvious. Inside your image dot DD file that you created from a DD command, you will have a complete copy of the file system. Also, the structures inside the file system, I don't know, the master file table, the indexes, the journal of the file system.

Everything has been copied exactly in the same position of the file. If in the file system, at byte 10, there were the master file table, then in the image dot DD, at byte 10 position, byte 10, there will be the master file table. Okay? So, in principle, you may manipulate your file exactly as a full-fledged file system. And so, it's not surprising that there exist tools, commands, applications that allow to manage images exactly in that way. And here, I just mentioned the disk image-mounter, again, a graphical tool from Tane, or i-mount command, that exactly like mount command, that normally is not capable to manage a DD image, this command can mount an image, a forensically sound image, and exactly as an external file system, and then you can explore it from this point on.

So, a kind of guideline, a kind of resume of what we said. And when we want to investigate a device, we should follow a kind of bright-fledged setup that starts from the attachment of the device from a physical perspective, with the cautions that we've already seen, meaning adopting forensic imager, right blockers, right blockers, right blockers that we should have in our suitcase of tools, set the device as a read-only at direct access level, mount the file system in read-only, check the fact that no error has no errors have been introduced in the operations, like checking the mount operation, check the status of your block device, and try to be consistent with your approach.

Here we are interacting directly with the operating system, with the operating system low-level functionalities, for example, when we set the block dev to read-only. So, we should be aware that not all operating system setups are properly configured to manage this kind of condition. Device level protection, device level protection, this is the meaning of the fact that device level protection override file system request, meaning that if I put as a, with the block dev instruction, my device as read-only, even if I mounted that, not in read-only, but in read-write mode, still, as you might expect, the right operation will fail, append operation, anything that modify the content of the device will fail.

But, this might be something that the operating system is not, in interaction with the file system is not ready to do, so this might result in errors between the metadata, and the content of the files and the content of the files, because different operations that expect a different output results in blocked attempt. Okay, so, something to be aware of is that we are forcing this kind of status and these not normal operational conditions. Okay, and I put this in order, I think, we will experiment something like that in one of our laboratories, and this might be useful for you to have this kind of very simple list guidelines that you can reproduce, and I think, and I think, and I think that you can understand the question.

I think those concepts are pretty simple, just something that you need to be aware of. Okay. Of course, this kind of arguments allow to introduce the, well, is already part of a kind of concept, a set of concepts that are part of different forensic domains. This is understanding of first-level interaction, of how to set up, what kind of tools we need to have, but is also, from a different perspective, part of the file system forensic domain.

Well, in this course, I approach different macro areas separately, even if, in practice, many concepts are similar, for example, or at least are used in multiple domains. Like, for example, we have seen that the file metaphor, the network, and also with the memory. So, different domains like network forensics or memory forensics are very well affected also by file system knowledge. But still, I try to put some order in areas that are pretty large and share concepts, even if this organization in silos, let's say, is pretty much arbitrary and only for having a mental frame.

How to approach, from a theoretical perspective, different concepts. Inside the file system for ASIC domain, we encounter again, from a different perspective, the concept of file. So, where a file, where a file is an abstraction, is the smallest logical unit, from a user perspective, but not from an operating system perspective. That can result in, well, bytes, lines, records, depending on the underlying logical structure, but also depending on the underlying physical structure, we will have different properties. Like, well, I mentioned that we may see the network, a network interaction mediated by a file metaphor, and that from the end user perspective, the interaction seems the same, exactly the same, from an end user application, from end user comments, etc.

But still, it's different, because when I try to interact with an NFS or file system, or with a SMB file system, let me call it file system, set of files. So, in reality, I'm, in reality, sending and receiving packets, flow of data through my network cards and on the network. And this has huge impact from a digital perspective, from a digital forensic perspective, because, for example, I am sending public data, data that also outside of my device can be noticed, for example, through a sniffer. And this may have consequences, if I'm investigating on a behavior of a user, maybe I can understand that someone sniffed the data, and may well know what the user is doing, then may have exploited this information for doing something.

Or, on the contrary, I can, if I'm investigating on the cover versus a suspect, I may use the information that adopts, that the suspect adopts a network file system to acquire information on the files that is present in using, when he or she accesses the file. or she accesses the files, what kind, what is the amount of data that is trying to access. For example, in a case like the John, the John use case we approached, understanding that is downloading an amount of data, that is exactly the same, more or less the same, of a specific project, that may indicate, even if encrypted, that the user is copying it, or moving it, for example.

So, the understanding of the different layers, we have a conceptual layer, the user sees different files, those are units of information. These units are translated in logical components, basically bytes, not necessarily only bytes, but most of the time bytes, and then this logic has a physical reality. Où are different? You can also say this, like we are on a set of signals of electrons, magnetic charge, network flow of signals on a network etc. For example, the understanding of the physical structure might suggest possible, might influence possible sources. For example, if I know that there is an old-fashioned magnetic hard drive on a specific device with some very advanced tools, I may be able to understand, to see the content.

You need a very sophisticated tool, but in principle, in theory, it's possible that you may be able even to get the information that has been erased through a secure deletion tool, putting a set of zeros or a set of ones on an hard drive, because of the echoes of the previous magnetic charges. Or, on the contrary, if I know that the file instead is a memory device, again, if I'm a very advanced investigator, I may be equipped with the tools to freeze, literally, the content of the RAM and then access it in my lab after some half an hour or an hour, still with the presence of the information there inside the memory.

the memory bank. We know this is the understanding of these three different domain of state of our information is relevant in our investigation. And, well, the content of this different information are accessible at different levels. If we interact at operating system level, we access it from a logical perspective. If we access it at physical level, then we need an external device.

But, we can preserve the very content of information. I mentioned this fact multiple times. What kind of information are modified by logical interaction? Here, basically, are sequences of metadata that are relevant in a file system domain. The file name that has also, nowadays, this strange organization, a long name and a short extension, which is legacy of the old time, in which we have eight characters for the name plus three characters to indicate the type of the file. This is historical knowledge. But, even if, nowadays, the name may not be longer useful to identify a specific file and should be only a kind of mnemonic identifier suitable for human. Still, due to legacy reason, it is used for performing some operation. This is related with the second meta-meta information, the type. Yeah, we have a specific information inside, among the information, the bytes, let me say, used by a file that indicates the file type.

Usually, this has the form of a so-called magic number. There are a few bytes at the beginning, almost always at the beginning, sometimes also at the end of the file, that allow the file type identification. In spite of this type of information, information on the type of the file, in some application, some operating system, some conditions, like during an exchange of a network, of a network flow, the agent, the agent, the application, try to manipulate, to compute, to interact with the file, using the extension in the file name, that nowadays, basically, should be just, well, a mnemonic identifier, as I said.

And again, this is important for two aspects. One, we need to be aware that the application, the operating system, might be tempted to perform badly, not by the file type, but by the extension. And the extension. And the extension is something that, most of the time, can be manipulated very easily. And also, oh, the fact that we, as humans, should not rely too much on the extension name to understand what is a file. Because, well, this is a normal kind of attempt during an attack. This is a basic kind of social engineering that tempt us to, well, for example, open immediately a file because it seems a nice document, or maybe a game if we are a little kid, or maybe a little kid, or maybe a urgent communication, a presentation for a colleague, whatever, just by the name of the extension, while the file instead might well be a malicious application that, if run, will result in an infection of our system.

And among the basic attribution, the basic capabilities, the basic information that we have about files, we have, of course, the protection, the kind of permission that you have, or that depict how we can access our files. And that allow to establish all the access control posture of the content of our file system. The very basic combination inside Unix-like system is setting in different groups the permission, the owner, the group that the owner belongs, the rest of the world.

And inside these different groups state if the user can read, write, or execute the file. This is a very basic, not the most simple, that is still in use, but still a very basic one that allows a good degree of protection. But in modern operating system, modern access control, we may have many more combinations that describe how we can access a file. But this requires some more collaboration from the operating system. Here I'm just stating the basic kind of attributes that we have at operating system level on a file. And so most of the time we have this set of basic protection nowadays.

And something very similar in Windows MTFS. While in FAT32, there is no such kind of control. You can basically access or not. We will dig into a little more in that. I conclude my list with the basic attributes with location and size. Location allows me to understand where in the directory tree is placed. The size is the size of our main bytes, usually. a file consume on the storage. And this is nice from a digital forensic perspective information, because the size is mediated by operating system functionality.

So, it might be different from the actual size, because, for example, the system works in blocks of a certain dimension, and so cannot perfectly manage sub-block dimension, and also by the fact that this is the claim side, but if we manipulate a file at a more low level, we can modify the content of a file without affecting the size. This is again something that, for example, if you remember, we can do if we directly access to one of the devices that we have in our operating system. And so, the conclusion here, which is a very important one, is do not rely on the file name, do not rely on the protection that the file system provides you, do not rely even on the side when you are investigating on a device, because all those information, all those kind of protection, all those kind of features provided by the OS can be manipulated by a Cleavernov attacker.

Questions? Well, we conclude here. Thank you for the attention, and what can I say, it has been ever a good holiday period. And well, tomorrow, lesson with Professor Vachago, as you know. Yeah. That's it. You're hoping that none of this will be needed to have a default situation. You're hoping that, when we read thegs record to complete the Clock of the amor from now, we have remembered.

You're hoping that you will be able to pass whoever we have to do but you'll be able to find your system, up to an anchor." After assuming that Gazeas Ricardo was told, one of the reasons why we have a question on this list, I don't do not rely on anything on someone on the way in the opposite 1949.
