Sorry, I just noticed that, I don't know why, for some reasons, for some reason, the microphone was mute on remote.

So just, well, in a really brief, I just said about the lab that you are not required to stick with the format of the data, of the templates I provided. You for reporting your actions, you are free to change them. Those are indications about the kind of information that I would like to see as a report, but you can enrich, change the form, etc. Of course, as understandable, logically organized, complete, as much you achieve these quality levels, well, better will be the result. Okay, let's get back to the theoretical part.

The last, as usual, any question, request of clarification for the theory we are lecturing in these days. We can continue. We were approaching a focus point about the solid state devices that changed a lot the approach, what we learned about the availability and, well, the forensic procedure as well, about the interaction with the storage device. Many mechanisms and the inner structure of this new, relatively new type of device change a lot of theoretical and practical actions in doing an investigation.

We've seen the core point is that there is a kind of middleware that mediates interaction and change and also perform many strange operations in order to prolong the life of the device. It's changing dynamically and even when the device is switched off the content of a specific address in a solid state device. And, well, we have a lot of strange stuff that may happen. For example, the fact that immediately after a command to delete a component, the component, the piece of information may be no longer there. And this is related to trim, activation and implementation.

And also on the opposite, some hypotheses that we may have like, okay, so also the hash of one file may be affected, do not hold, because on the contrary, the intermediation of the firmware layer allow to retrieve always the same information. So the hash is still the same. And, well, and this might affect dynamic adaptation on my voice, strangely. Maybe the cable raise the volume level.

Interesting. Okay. And so the forensic procedure will be affected in some theoretical way, like the acceptability, admissibility of a procedure. If SSD involved, even in absence of using a red blocker, for example, why? Because in many cases, the red blocker will not properly work interacting with an SSD device. Or also some new options that can be considered in some specific cases.

Like this is some, maybe, yeah, the last slide that I did not explain yesterday. Some modes and some aspects that may affect an analysis, like the presence and the possibility to access the factory access mode, when in the possibility of the forensic investigator, that allow to trespass the normal behavior of this kind of device, maybe with some damage or, well, some more consumption of the underlying device, in order to reduce, to mitigate or disable at all the influence of the mechanism, like garbage collection, like garbage collection, with leveling and delish and continuous remapping of the device in order to access, in the old-fashioned way, the content of the device.

Or also, similarly, as a forensic approach, the chip-off approach, which is, well, a complex, a costly, expensive and damaging approach, that means extract the real chip, where the NAND cells are present, in order to avoid the work of the firmware controller, and then, allowing the possibility to access directly the content of the memory, okay? This is, well, this has some, well, risk from the perspective of damaging physically the memory, but also, in a modern scenario, this might be not really useful when, as you may imagine, when the content of the storage is encrypted, for example, okay?

Maybe by an embedded mechanism of self-encryption, of disk self-encryption. In that case, trying this kind of procedure will be a kind of big cross on the investigation, destroying completely the possibility to recover data. Okay, so this might be a kind of desperate attempt, or a very well-controlled attempt, in case, maybe if I was able to recover the key somehow, or, well, for some reason, the disk is not encrypted, etc. Otherwise, it's a kind of suicidal approach. Also, in order to recover data, on the contrary, a mechanism from SSD is the over-provisioning, in order to duplicate and to plumb the life of the claim life of the memory, which is a kind of larger size, real, physical larger size of the memory, contrary to what is claimed, which is a strange behavior from a business perspective, but it is the case in order to allow, for example, for some extra memory that can be used in case of the initial damage of some NAND cells, and allow the possibility to continue to use, still use the memory after the damage of even a consistent number of cells due to the normal deterioration of this kind of memory.

But, from a forensic perspective, knowing that, it allows to have another area that maybe is still not affected by the internal mechanism of the controller, of a normal SSD, and then allow for acquisition of not yet erased or modified information. Okay, and those are some remarks that are significant to know in doing a forensic investigation in a SSD field. Okay, this concludes what I need to tell you in more detail.

For the rest you have some, well, comparison that might be useful in order to understand and resume the different approach that you may have, in different conditions. Okay, now I'd like to have another focus that I promised yesterday, which is on data sanitization. I mentioned that from a forensic perspective, we need to be more careful than only, but this is something that you well understood.

Now, from knowing some aspect of digital forensics, it is the end of the file system organization. You might well understand that it is not enough to just put a file on the trash, on the recycle bin, obviously. We have seen the possibility of overwriting a file that's overwriting bit by bit a piece of memory, which is a proper approach in terms of digital forensics. But for having a kind of overview of what is data sanitization is nice, in my opinion, have a look on different possibilities of, in a legal and technically sound, what means in a legal and technically sound way, delete really a piece of information, a device.

And we have, in this sense, a number of standards, like I like a lot, the NIST one, which is publicly available and has been revised pretty recently, last year, this NIST SP standard. And it is a very nice document to read, but we have plenty of standards in different domains of financial, healthcare, different countries, etc. At international, at the level of the United States, etc. We have a lot of standards that we might need to comply to, given a specific condition, military, as the one mentioned yesterday, etc.

As a general condition, this one, in my view, is a very good and pragmatic approach. I try to distill in this small set of slides the more general and common techniques, also taking into account some specific characteristics of a device, of some specific device, like the one we already seen. Some concepts are nice to be mentioned. Some concepts are nice to be mentioned. Some concepts are nice to be mentioned inside the NIST standard, there are some categories of sanitization, of deletion of a file, like the NIST CLIA level, the CLIA level, which identifies logical techniques that are capable to delete.

Some concepts are nice to delete a piece of information, considering a kind of adversary not the most powerful possible adversary, meaning does not have advanced labs, unlimited resources, sophisticated resources, complex equipment, complex equipment, and so on. So, a simple and non-invasive, meaning I cannot detach the component from the physical original box. Well, achieving the NIST CLIA level means that a normal attack, for example, the attempt to reconstruct the content using, for example, a software direct level access to the device should not be successful.

This is the clear level. This is the clear level. We have an improved level, according to the NIST standard, which is the push level. In this case, well, this means a more intense technique to delete the content of the storage device. In this case, in this case, also a laboratory cannot be able to get back the content of a storage bag, even using advanced equipment, advanced techniques. state-of-the-art procedures, state-of-the-art procedures. And, well, this is, in general, a kind of requirement when sensitive organizations need to release, outside of a controlled environment, some storage.

Okay? The requirement is to push the device. And finally, as a most definitive way, when a device will be no longer reused in any way, we have the NIST destroy level. That is exactly what the term indicates. The physical destruction of the device, with some folkloristic possibilities, like physical shredding into small particles, incineration, disintegration, etc. Pretty nice operations. That is the destruction of the device.

Nothing less, nothing more than that. Okay? We have, and those are the nice level of possible sanitization, according to NIST. We have other terms that are related to our context, and you can imagine why, like the data encryption key, the key used to encrypt the data at rest. The self-encryption, the self-encryption, encrypting drive, that I mentioned a couple of minutes before, when I talk about the chip-off approach to forensic.

That might be a strong implication in case of accessing data on a storage device, and also might be activated. And this kind of device can be erased by specific commands at a low controller level, like the crypto-erase H-E-A command. Can you imagine what can be the effect of a crypto-erase via a command in a said device? What might be the effect?

Can you imagine what, well, I am guessing that, you know, at high level, how I said a self-encryption drive works, which is the drive embed, the, at hardware level, the encryption capabilities. So, before putting at rest the data, the firmware, at hardware level, encrypt the data, put it, put them, the information on the physical storage. And when the information are required, that operating system, the, again, at hardware level, the, the controller decrypt the data and provide it, provide them to the operating system. Okay. This is, at high level, how it works.

In this kind of scenario, what is the most effective way to, to erase this kind of drive in a performance aware strategy? You can obtain a very nice result in a matter of microseconds here. Can you imagine what you can do? It's simple. We have a key stored in the controller. We might just say to the controller, and basically, this is what, in many implementations, the crypto erase does.

We can just say, erase the encryption key or change the encryption key, whatever, delete the previous one. So, all the previously encrypted data have gone forever. Okay. They just appear as a kind of random noise from that moment on. And by the way, this is a very effective way of sanitization on modern devices. This is a very effective one, often categorized that NIST push level. Other concepts we already encountered, then, that we're leveling, that is important because, allow for a, from one side, from a, allow a quick erase of information.

We have seen the different implementation of the trim command. From the other side, we have the possibility of data persistence, maybe behind the controller intermediation. Even after deletion of a specific sector. So, it provoked a kind of unpredictability on the interaction, also at the sanitization level. Other, well, a nice term is the coercivity, which is a kind of physical, magnetical metric, magnetic measure in, in, in the, on the scope of magnetic fields.

And I think you can imagine when this might be, might be interesting. When we are dealing with magnetic, physically magnetic storage device, like are the classical hard drives, but also when we, and this is why there is also this term here, with linear tape. A device that is still in use, a kind of linear device, in which you can store information from the beginning to the end, that has a very high density of information per unit of space. And then, but of course, you cannot access in a random way, meaning to any different piece of information, the content of the, of the data.

So they are still in use for backup purposes, since they are very cheap and pretty resistant for a reasonable amount of time. In that case, this kind of device can be erased by a process named the, the Gauss, which basically means I point on this kind of device, a strong, a very strong magnetic field above a certain threshold, a certain coercivity. And I will destroy all the magnetic properties of that device, making it completely unusable for the, for any future use.

I destroy the, the previous capacity of changing and storing magnetic information, physically magnetic state. Chipoff forensics. Chipoff forensics. Chipoff forensics. We mentioned that the, the, the extraction from a device to read directly. The NBM concept is interesting. generalize the concept of non-relative memory. And the fact that some new protocols, specific protocols have been developed to interact with, with this kind of component like SSD, but not only. is a more general case that involves also USB drives, some memory cards, specific memory cards, etc.

A nice point of the protocol, which is non-volatile memory experts, NBME, allow for specific commands that, for example, might achieve a low-level sanitization of the device. Erasing all the content. There are commands that allow to erase all the, all the content of, of a storage device. Achieving usually a clear level. Interesting. Since we are talking about sanitization, I, I'd like to mention also the remote nature.

Well, this is related to other topics in respect of what we approached in, in these days, which is pretty specific to the, to direct storage interaction. But is, at least, nice to mention that sanitization might involve different contexts, like remote device, like in case, a very common one, of a smartphone, that might be contacted, that might be instructed remotely to to delete the content of the memory. And this might be done at the user or at the organizational level. And that's why I put here this keyword, the mobile device management, that is, in general, a platform that allows some execution, some control from remote to device, as I said, at user level or organizational level for organizational devices.

Like in the case, like in the case, in which your organization provides you a company, a corporate mobile for your normal work. My, usually, has under control, the administration of the device, and this might involve, and usually involves, the possibility to emit a wide command on the device in order to remotely sanitize, remove the content of the memory. Okay. And we mentioned that before, this is something very important to know during an investigation. And that's why we use tools like firewall bags, in order to, to completely isolate a device from the possible wireless interaction with, with the other actors.

Okay. Also, another concept, interesting, and, in my opinion, related, is the PEPS approved random number generator. Well, this is not, in general, not very inherent to our discussion here, but it is very important for, for what? For the crypto-erase point, meaning that, when we change, most of the time, the crypto-erase involves the replacement of a key, or, in any case, we used a key to encrypt the data.

If the key used to encrypt the data results as a predictable, not truly random one, something that can be somehow algorithmically recovered, then the, the process of the crypto-erase would fail dramatically. Because I deleted the key, because I deleted the key, but I can, as an attacker or a forensic investigator, the need to access a device, I can evaluate again, compute again, the key that was used. This would be not possible if the key is determined thanks to a real, true random number generator. And this is a, the fifth is a military level standard that requires some real, some true random number generation properties to be achieved, and some standard that advise for a crypto-erase mechanism.

This mechanism to be at NIST-TURGE level requires that the key has been created thanks to this kind of procedure, thanks to a random generation, in order to avoid the possibility to recompute again after the replacement or the deletion of the key. Okay, that's why I put this also this term here, which is a nice point to reflect on. Well, then we have the list of the different possibilities that conceptually are not that complex. We already encountered, and it is the most natural, the most intuitive one, the overwriting, that basically means, overwrite all the content of the storage by a specific pattern, usually by zeros, or by many specific patterns, like the military standard that we have seen.

That requires first step zero, second step one, first step random numbers. And, well, there are, about that, there are studies, there are kind of dependencies on the type of device, even in the field of the old HDD. There are studies that demonstrate, that show that basically a single step is very, very likely enough to avoid the possibility to recover a disc.

But, and in this case, we achieve a kind of push level of sanitization. With some devices, basically, old-fashioned hard drives that use old-fashioned technology and has a specific quality level, this might be recovered, meaning that there are traces of the previous magnetic field, magnetic field that allow with sensitive, with very sophisticated equipment to note the previous magnetic trace on the field. And that's why, for some, in some cases, the achieved level is just clear, according to NIST category.

Okay. Overriding. Overriding. Overriding. When available, if you want to have some level of assurance that the result is a consistent level, will be done at firmware level, using specific commands. With a specific command of the controller, like the security arrays, when available, instead of using a command that put a specific pattern on the storage itself. Okay. When this can be invoked at firmware level, we are much more sure of the effect.

Like, for example, in case of an SSD driver that, as we have seen, is largely mediated by the controller itself. But this is a concept true for many devices. Okay. The Gaussian procedure is the magnetic field approach. The magnetic field approach. I already mentioned that we have here some parameters, like the typical intensity of the magnetic field, which is measured in terms of hosted physical unit of measurement for magnetic field.

And, well, basically, this is just something to know and not very much to say here. This is just put a strong magnetic beam, metaphorically speaking, on my magnetic device and burn it and destroy it even from not touching physically it. Of course, when it makes sense to use this kind of approach when the device is magnetically based, like all the disks, floppy hard drives, tape for backup, etc. Otherwise, as you may imagine, the device is completely unaffected.

Okay. Optical ones, SSDs, or, well, any kind of non-magnetic device. For affected device, this achieves a push level state, meaning that basically the device after this treatment does not have any remnants of previous information and, well, most of the time it gets completely unusable. Unusable. No longer reliable. No longer reliable. The cryptographic error is something we have mentioned. And here you find also the, well, the missed level achieved, which is the purge one.

And the fact that some standard requires the use of a random number generation generator for choosing a disk encryption key. Okay. And, well, also the fact that in case we may have a specific device that implement this at firmware level, we may, well, we may have cryptographic error, not necessarily implemented at hardware level. Don't take me wrong. This can be done at operating system level. If my operating system takes a software library before putting the data on the hard disk and encrypt it, that's fine.

I can obtain the same result. If I delete the key, the content of the, of the storage is no longer retrievable. And so, and so this is something we, we can achieve. Of course, the context changed, meaning that if the key is inside the operating system, I have some more option that I can try. Like trying to recover the key from the central memory. If the device is switched, is switched on, for example, while might be complex to retrieve it on the self-encrypting drives, meaning that is not in the central memory. In the central memory, okay? And to be acceptable in terms of many standards, the requirement is to use a strong encryption algorithm like AS with a key of 256 bits.

In size. And of course, of course, the requirement inside this standard is also that the, the key is not easily accessible when we encrypt it by a, through a software approach. Okay. Well, and in order to, well, be completely sure that no one will be able to recover the content of the device, we can physically destroy it. And we have some possible mechanisms with also parameters that we need to achieve, like, for example, for disintegration and shredding.

The standard also describes the level of the size of particles that need to be the result of this procedure. Like small pieces of less than five millimeters for a specific drive or two millimeters in case of particularly sensitive information, etc. And we have, of course, fusion or incineration more correctly, more accurately, or drilling or, well, many flavors of physical destruction. I nicely talked with a military agent two days ago that, well, in a kind of Italian style procedure, took an hammer and destroyed a laptop in order to, well, achieve a sufficient degree of confidentiality.

Confidentiality after some reporting activity at military level. So we may have a different approach, approaches, more technical, more, well, spectacular, more pragmatic, etc. So the result, the final result is that we need a physical destruction and the physical destruction might respect some specific requirements, depending on the type of, on the context in which we are operating. We are just a focus, an highlight of the sanitization command available at the ATA standard, like the security, the arrays command that basically perform a drive internal activated, the internal activated at controller level of all the sectors, or the sanitization ATA command, the sanitized device command, which is, by the way, recommended for SSDs, that emit, that means, at the implementation level, the emission of the signal to delete the cell to all the different NAND circuits.

Okay, and here, more or less the same at the level of the standard of NVMe, which those two slides are basically to say that, according to a specific standard, the modern devices, non-volatile and storage devices, non-volatile memory and storage devices, is a pretty common capability to allow a low-level command to delete completely the content of the equipment, non-volatile RAM or a drive. So, in case of non-volatile memory, we have this desanitized command as well.

Well, about the remote sanitization, I mentioned, I already mentioned the concept. And, yeah, I just, I like the fact that it works both for Android devices and Apple devices. I always base it once. Basically, the very command is different, but the effect is kindly the same, which is the execution of a crypto erase that might be at level of a crypto erase. At level of full disk or of all the files on the device.

For example, Android may approach full disk encryption or a file-based encryption, depending on the version and on the configuration of a device. But in any case, maybe less effectively, but in any case, both of them allow for a crypto sanitization, where the concept is always the same. encrypt the content, the content, the content is already encrypted, change once and for all, the key used to encrypt the storage device. So, this is, as I mentioned, might be affected by the reachability of the device.

And that's why, for instance, Fardai bags might be effectively used very soon in the confiscation of this kind of device in order to retrieve the content. And, well, something that this is related, well, this kind of approach, and this is a kind of good news for a forensic investigation is not a strong sanitization procedure, but a kind of risk mitigation one. Like, for example, why is there is this widespread possibility on mobile phone, basically, after your device has been stolen?

Okay, in order to protect the legitimate use to the exfiltration of the data, of private data inside the device. Okay, basically, this is the prominent use case. But, of course, and then is not a 100% sure technology. And that's the good news from a forensic perspective. If we act as a forensic investigator in a quick and effective way, we can prevent the wiping of the device. Okay, and an effective way is the most of the time is the most effective one is just isolate the device. until you start your examination, maybe in an isolated environment, kind of resuming table here.

I think, according to what we described, if encrypted here means we are talking about linear tape. So, the crypto eraser is meaningful only if the data have been encrypted before, of course, putting them on the tape. Okay, otherwise, cannot be achieved. So, while it's easy and quick to change this status on different kind of storage device, in case of linear tape, you need to work in advance.

Why? Because, basically, you can write this kind of tape just one time, in many cases. Okay, those are the possible approaches. But, it's good to mention also the fact that we need to verify and maybe certify and then keep track of what we did during the sanitization process. In order to demonstrate it and in order to, well, avoid possible errors. So, also the verification of what we did during the sanitization process is a very important part. and also mentioned in the standards of data sanitization, like the NIST special publication, the IEEE, etc.

So, the verification work means that we should check, at least statistically, the result of our sanitization. Some standards also mention explicitly, what is the amount of the sanitized device that needs to be checked. For the very high security grade, we need 100% checking for some reasonably secure context. 10%, 20%, 15% might be enough. We need to perform, and well, this might be a significant approach, but, as you may imagine, can be significantly time-consumed, in particular, in case of 100% verification.

And, if I'm not doing 100% verification, I might still have, for some mistake, bugs, whatever reason, some part of the device not properly sanitized. In that case, an hash-based verification might be more effective. In that case, I have given the device and a set of expected hash values according to the capacity of the device. I can compute the hash and check against this expected value. I expect that, for example, a device of 5 GB, all of them at 0 value, will result according to a specific algorithm, digest algorithm, to a specific value.

I have a table of that, I can compute the hash and see if the result is exactly what I expected from this operation. And this checks all the surface, all the bits inside a sanitized device. So, it's a nice approach, a nice and sound approach. Also, I may rely on the feedback, this is not 100% sure, but, for example, both in some relaxed context, I may keep track of the status of a controller, but controller and even operating system, but mostly at controller level, that describe the status during the ongoing process of sanitization.

And also, of course, at the end of that, in order to understand the result of an operation. In many cases, this is not considered enough to be sure of a successful sanitization, but in any case, it is something nice to monitor because it can save time and resources. Meaning, if I, according to the log, a failure in the process of sanitization, then I can basically immediately interrupt my procedure and start again. Okay? So, from a performance perspective, it's something that is good to check in any case, even if not sufficient for a full verification of the procedure.

And, of course, here we are not in a pure technical side here, but more in a legal side, in case of litigation, a third party might check the good result of a sanitization procedure. In order to act as a trusted party that can witness this kind of operation and solve a possible litigation as a kind of trusted third party. And, well, again, from a reporting and legal perspective, we need to trail the set of operations, the procedure adopted.

And we need, in terms of chain of custody, maintain this kind of threat of what has been done, by who, when, with what kind of equipment, of certified equipment, with what result, who made the measure of, well, the size of the particle. The size of the particles after disintegration, for example. All those kind of stuff can be, according to some standard, must be maintained for at least three years, in many standards, for five or seven, or even more, depending on specific context. Questions? Questions?

Okay, we may have a break here. It's time to change the forensic domain and shift into the natural forensic field instead. We approach the different points on file system forensics. For file system forensics, we described a reasonable sample, well, of approaches, subtleties, peculiarities in case of specific device type.

But a normal forensic investigation, as you may imagine, is composed by a kind of multimodal approach, that considers investigation in different fields, that combines different information in order to have a larger picture of what what a suspect or an organization or an adversary might have done in a specific case, or even a malicious bot, or an autonomous agent, whatever. In order to do that, the contribution of the network of information that you may find on the network, on inside packet exchange, or as a kind of remnants of actions performed on the network, might be a kind of goldmine to find out possible.

In order to find out possible clues, possible pieces of information to obtain a sound reconstruction of facts. Well, since we are changing topic, I can note that now we have a consistent set of topics. So, I encourage you, the ones that are performing homeworks, in particular, to some of you, I know, are close to the conclusion. Now, we are ready to start, basically, some of the discussion of presentation on some topics.

So, we can arrange, already in these days, when you can present your homework for who is close to the end. Maybe, hopefully, already for the next week, we will have on Wednesday, another lab, but on Tuesday, we may have one, maybe, or even two presentations, if available. So, if someone is working on topic we already covered, and is close to the conclusion, I encourage you to contact me to submit a draft in order to receive the output, and to receive advices, and hypothetically conclude the presentation, the work for the next week, or soon, maybe for the beginning of May.

Okay. I think we are almost ready for some work to start the presentation. That's my belief. But, of course, this is not mandatory, but it's nice to schedule, to dilute the presentation along the remaining part of the course and not all of them at the end of the course. So, this is a call for presenting, basically, to be brave and conclude the work with a scary but intriguing presentation to the whole audience. Which is an interesting one, and maybe some nice and live debate might happen, possibly. Okay. And so, it's good to proceed into a new domain that is multifaceted and comprise a number of different points that is good to approach.

So, starting from the strict definition, which is, what is network forensics? Okay. It is basically the acquisition and the analysis of the network traffic according to a strict definition in order to shed some light on a crime, on an investigation, on an incident, on an investigation in general. But, according to some definition, this also involves the consequence, the remnants that can be found on the network in order to understand details related to the evidences or to gather evidences relevant for an investigation.

Under the second umbrella, the identification of characteristics of possible investigation targets, suspects, and related behavior might be well improved. What I mean here? What I mean here? I mean what is normally named like open source intelligence, social media intelligence, and nowadays the adoption of modern techniques based on modern tools and also artificial intelligence in order to distill information on a specific target organization or individual.

like very easily we can retrieve a lot of information, for example, checking, identifying, investigating on the action on social media, on pieces of action that are a suspect, a suspect left on the network or about the reputation or the public action of an organization. simple, simple example. If, for example, an organization emit a request of employment, of work related to a specific tool, for example, for, I don't know, MySQL, if it requires a specific tool, for example, for, I don't know, MySQL, if it requires something desirable, MySQL experience on a specific field, I can derive the conclusion that inside that organization, MySQL, just an example, is a user tool.

Even better, even better, if it is a request for Nginx as a web server or Apache or whatever, I may well understand that likely that is the software that is used inside the organization. And this, for example, might help me in mounting an attack from an attacker perspective. Or, on the contrary, might restrict the field of investigation from a digital forensic perspective, from an investigative perspective. And might allow me to prepare in advance to the type of investigation, for example, what type of skills, what type of equipment might be required when I go to the site of the organization to see it, to confiscate something.

Okay, this kind of information of this information retrieval may well be, may fall under a loose definition of network forensics. Not just the capture and the analysis of the packets themselves, but also the acquisition of the consequences, the traces left on the network in order to reconstruct a sound timeline. Complementing, for example, how I approach to gather information related to file system forensics. Okay, of course, well, about the acquisition of network traffic, nowadays, she must be well aware of the context in which we are investigating, meaning that for normal exchange, the application and, well, well, basically, the total content at application level of the packet exchange is encrypted, thanks to the use of TLS mostly, but also SSH, sometimes IPsec.

And so the deep packet analysis is not easy and must be, is not directly most of the time applicable and must be complemented by other techniques that might involve social, social engineering actions in order to recover a key by by direct access to the host by inspection of a laptop to spy and to, for example, keylog the password inserted by the people, the person under investigation. And, well, the usage of pattern recognition at network level that might be effective even in absence of deep packet inspection.

Or maybe I need to contextualize my analysis, my investigation, if I'm in the position to do that, in order to trespass the encryption. For example, I might infiltrate or I might infiltrate or I might have the permission from the network administrator, if a user of the organization is suspected of a crime, to put a probe, a sensor inside the local area network that, in a specific case, I might accept non-encrypted traffic and there I can acquire a huge amount of information in CLIA in order to perform, to acquire a lot of information.

To perform this kind of investigation, we have some tools and formats that are commonplace here, like the PCAP format, that is a very widespread format to store the packets. The packets captured on a network and it is very important to capture them, even in case of obfuscation, encryption, like encryption, because I can access the lower layer information, data link, network level, transport level, but also because during the investigation, I may be able to recover the encryption key used and then decrypt the content of the packet.

You may know, for example, and here we have, this is standard, but we have specific tools like Warshark that you will know, that are wonderful for packet acquisition and analysis. I was saying that inside Warshark, you may know, that it's possible to give the session key, the symmetric session key, in order to decrypt the TLS packet. And see, it's a simple mean that might be used by investigator after the recovery of a key to see what's inside some network exchange. And that's why a PCAP set of files that capture even encrypted communication might be useful, even if encrypted, and even if at the moment is still not so useful due to encryption, basically.

In particular, if during the investigation, I'm able to complement this kind of information with post-level ones, like logs, like information from file system forensics, that can corroborate or deny specific hypotheses that can corroborate or deny specific hypotheses that I may hypothesize during the investigation. Okay, the work here will be the continuous refinement of information and hypothesis coming from different sources of investigation. And, well, depending on the specific context, as a network analysis, I may use tools like the well-known NMAP in order to obtain information on a specific service.

For example, why I may use, from a forensic perspective, a tool like NMAP, for example, in order to understand if there is a shadow server, for example, active on a node that is not supposed to be there, a server that is not supposed to be there, and then I can conclude that it is a shadow server, for example, or might be useful in order to monitor the usage of a node for a person under investigation, for a suspect during the undercover part of the investigation. Okay, and NMAP, as usual, might be very, very useful for network analysis.

To understand the content and to corroborate the fact that a pick-up set of files might be a nice source of information, we have tools like Explico, NetworkMiner, NetworkMiner, and others, I mentioned just two of them, that allow to extract, like the target application of a network exchange can do, extract the application level information, like what is a web page, what is a file that is transferred transferred at HTTP level, and so on, in order to understand, to make more understandable the analysis of a series of packet exchange.

Okay, so the work might be, I have this kind of blob of network communication, I, as I did approaching the file system, I need to curve the content outside from the network exchange, in order to have specific and consistent units of information, like separate files, like like complete application level exchange, that are meaningful from the application perspective, and so I can identify, most of the time, complementarily to the investigation at node level, what my target of investigation did in the context. In the network forensic field, of course, we can try to depict the different forensic phases, like identification of the sources, and here, the digital footprint of the online behaviour is, as I said, an enormous amount of of interesting aspects. What kind of information we might find out? Well, profiles, email addresses that can correlate a person to an organization, or vice versa.

We might see domain names, the registration of domain names, the time for the registration of the domain names. For example, if I see a domain registered a few days ago during my investigation, this is a strange sign that might be related to a malicious campaign. Unless I can find out a different set of explanation. I may find out IP addresses that allow me to understand, for example, locations of some specific component. I may find the information left on public repositories, that might give me sign of the sign of specific behaviour, but also signs of compromising, like for example, if I have my username and password, a couple of username and password that I used on a repository that lists the compromised ones.

For example, for example, we can identify an enormous list of signs of behaviour, but also in the initial phase, a set of ways that is nice, that might be productive. follow to follow in order to find out further information, okay? I start with a suspect, I then can start to check the network, the online behavior of this suspect, and from all the different accounts that this suspect might have, I can derive direct or undirect information. For example, on a social media I might see when is active, maybe to what places he or she went on some specific date, according to, for example, a photo that posts on a social media.

According to some, I don't know, reviews that the suspect done on a specific place, I might hypothesize that the suspect knows the place or from the very type of sentences that put inside a review. I can derive some information on the location of the suspect, on the sentiment of the suspect, and then I can derive the kind of action that might have done. I can even try to depict a kind of psychological profile for the suspect with the quantity of, not directly, but possibly correlated information that I may find as online traces. This is something in the possibility of investigator. And this allow usually is an interactive step. From a first series of traces, I may continue to dig into and find other organizations that are related, find other accounts related to the new organizations, find affiliations, find participation to conferences, to events, etc., etc., because nowadays the tools allow me to explore the the content of text, but also the content of images to identify people inside, to identify places, and then the investigation done by automatic means may be very effective and quick.

When I find out the possible sources, I can start to use, as I mentioned, the housing, open source intelligence, meaning accessing and using the commonly, the publicly available tools and information to acquire the identification, trying to understand also the level of alteration, or even better, trying to acquire a not altered piece of information. There exists a lot of sources that, for example, allow me to see websites as it were some times ago, or even retrieve websites that are no longer online or pieces of information in general that are no longer there. Like, for example, with the Wayback Machine Initiative, that store web pages in a snapshot of web pages in different points in time that I can openly access to see how there was a specific site 10 years ago, 15 years ago, even if nowadays is no longer existent, a consistent archiving work that provided a lot of useful material that can allow me to dig into the history to find information. Or from the perspective of domains, I have online information that I can query to check the status of a specific domain.

As I mentioned, if it has been registered a few days ago or a little amount of time ago that allowed me to conclude maybe is malicious or, on the contrary, is historically there and so probably is a reliable one. But in that case, maybe has been compromised if I can check if I'm able to acquire network level data and find out a suspect pattern that might suggest infection for a specific node on the network. And this might involve not only, of course, domains, but also different network metadata like the IP address assigned to a node, the timestamp that I can derive for online resources, the information, the statements, remarks, whatever, that I have posted by the suspect on forums on any kind of publicly accessible node on the network.

This is a nice thing to reflect on. When I put information on the network, even a simple post, even a kind of like on a resource, even a small statement on a forum, I may well consider that this piece of information is not very relevant, but it carry on a lot of information about the fact that in that very moment, I was there in front of a device, likely the fact that that I used a specific IP address that most of the time is recorded by the server I'm connecting to, the how much time I interacted, I had an active connection with the component. This allow, for example, to derive a restricted zone for my physical location, because from the IP address I might identify with a reasonable amount of reliability, the physical location of the device.

And all this kind of information, even after a relatively very small action that I did on the network, might be very helpful in reconstructing a timeline related to a specific individual. And this is exactly work of the network forensic investigator. A point related to the network forensic is the fact that the information are many times not under direct control of the user, more or less, and also not fully under control of the investigator. They might change depending even on a strategical, internal operation of a server, of a service provider, might be changed, moved, deleted, duplicated, whatever.

And thus it is important to try to take a kind of snapshot of that information that allows to be presented in the original state in the court. This is not a kind of very advanced, does not require very advanced approaches. It's just consider a proper acquisition that can preserve the state of the information. For example, if I can take a screenshot of an evidence of an evidence on a social media, I can digitally sign, I can put a timestamp on this information, and then make it part of the chain of custody. Or I can do the same for a set of metadata. I can create, I can download a file when possible or I can replicate the information, for example, the metadata information and then timestamp, then providing a chain of images that demonstrate the presence of that information on that specific specific position on the network. And there exist tools that allow this kind of download from network information in a consistent forensic way that, for example, allow to create and retrieve and preserve the metadata the metadata associated to a specific evidence. And then, well, according to the digital forensic phases, we have the analysis part, where we have gathered the information, we have gathered metadata, we approach them in order to preserve all of them in a consistent way. And then we start to create, to highlight, to identify relationships. Basically, this means most of the time the creation of a kind of conceptual graph that connects different information, information among themselves, in order to visually, conceptually identify if a node in the network is related to an individual, then it's related to another node, with what kind of attribute, meaning by attribute IP addresses, carefully et cetera, trailblazing, where quantificar, narrative, analyze the different organizations, taking theHello, that it's related to an jedians, or d 있나ils.

Thatаются ope rand, including other regions, or dins of organizations, that are involving actions from different organizations, etc. And so, we may in practice, have multiple graphs, not just one mom that, allow me to understand the network correlation of 네가 Herr Jung Line, which will allow me to understand the data fois nodes, the correlation of a node with organization, the correlation of a network with some domains, the correlation of some actions performed by user to some service provider and so on, may at this point have multiple views that allow to identify, that allow to go in different paths to identify what set of actions might be possible by who, performed by what kind and when, what kind of agent and at what point in time. To allow this kind of investigation, in many cases, there is the need of support from third parties. In this case, who are third parties? Maybe, for example, as I mentioned there, the network administrator that allow me to access the network traffic and allow me to find patterns of malicious behavior, or the social media owner that allow me to acquire restricted the access metadata in order to better understand the behavior of a user, and that allow to perform multiple multiple steps of analysis and trace back to the origin of digital artifacts. For example, I may have the co-operation of a service provider, of an email provider, that allow me to understand if a retrieved email on a suspect node has been really, truly created by the server mentioned in the email metadata or not. Okay? Or, on the contrary, has been forged and is a fake email, created by a bot for a kind of malicious activity like a spam campaign. And little by little, this acquisition and analysis of information allows to shape the set of information, giving meaningfulness to the digital, to the investigation, to the digital artifacts, maybe to the digital incidents, putting the email, username, notes on the network, domain, user profile, or organization profile involved in a consistent way, and maybe identifying the behavior or the possibility of some specific specific hacker group, in case of large investigation, or of specific user, maybe for an internal investigation, in a specific organization, in which the incident is only at local level, for example, to identify an insider threat agent. Okay?

Okay. And well, this is the, in a very high level way, the overview of what the phases that compose network forensic investigation on a very, very high level. The concluding one is, as usual, the reporting one. And, well, why I mentioned in particular, here, the report phase, conceptually, is as usual. I can be, I can be, I can be, I can to highlight information, and use proper jargon, select details for the target audience, as in any forensic investigation.

But here, since we are, since we are, since we are talking about, uh, uh, network, uh, interaction, uh, is what to mention that, uh, using open source, uh, or in general, publicly available information, I can enrich, uh, the content, uh, of the report, providing, um, um, information that, uh, uh, documents that, uh, um, information that, uh, meant that, uh, or are, um, delivered inqueЭtild in some opportunities, uh, realm, everything, so that we have зар work on, in general. So whatwhat is appropriate where possible is going to do it, in general and guide, uh, work done in general in general? of the security incident we had one more or less one month ago, the beginning of the timeline we reconstructed started by some actions on the network, the exploration, the connection of a concurrent organization in order to find out and some research on the internet in order to understand details of other workplaces and of some clause of the contract of the malicious agent of the initial phases of the job plan to exfiltrate the data related to the internal project.

Okay, so this kind of network traces might be something that is very comprehensible and very enlightening in making clear an investigation from the perspective of an outside, outside from the technical group of the investigator audience. We might go a little more into details of the type of information that we can easily find out. For example, we might very easily find out information related to specific IP addresses and IP addresses are by nature of the internet omnipresent everywhere and strictly needed to any exchange on the internet and furthermore recorded in many different types of logs.

And a nice source of initial information, I can find information that helps me to narrow down the physical location of a node or of a user and I can have done that very easily even using a network interface, a browser-based interface. Here we have an example of an IP address. We might see, for example, a specific physical place recorded and associated to public information. This is an IP address related to the name server from Google, which is located, an organization located in California and so on and so on.

And also we may find information related to the security posture of this component. It can be suitable for relaying, that can be suitable for hosting a core protocol regarding to privacy. It might be part of a virtual privacy network, etc. A lot of information that allows me to understand not only the geographical location, but also many information about the security posture, but also many information about the security posture and then what kind of behavior might have this component. And I repeat myself, we can do that, any of us can do that very easily. For example, I don't know, I can here. I open a terminal. Let me see. I'm curious about...

what is my address right now. Okay, this is a little... No, sorry. Well, I have a lot of virtual... Yeah, virtual stuff. Let me see. This one. Okay. Well, I'm more interested in... See, for example, I'm not interested in doing anything because it does not answer more on my command. Okay. Sorry. I don't want to waste much time without the feedback that I don't know why is not hard, but in the end. For example, we can find the address of an organization that I'm interested into, the Poly2 one. Then I can open the... any kind of tool to find out the information.

Like, for example, yes, yes, IP info. And then I can put here the IP address. And immediately, I'm going to go to the Poly2 one. Then I can open the... any kind of tool to find out the information. Like for example, yes, IP info. And then I can put here the IP address. And immediately have a set of information about the IP I noted. Like for example, the location of the address. And well, of course, this is just an initial part of the investigation.

But it's just to demonstrate the amount of information that I can find out quickly and freely related to the network investigation. By the way, I noted that... that is... we are late on Wednesday. And I think it's good to approach the... since we are going to more detail the... the topic from the beginning next time. So just some final question, if any. If no specific question, I think for today we can end here. And we will meet again next week. Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
