Hello, everybody. Ciao, Gianluca. Ciao. Hello, everyone. Good morning. Good morning.

As I anticipated, I'm not in Italy and I will do this lesson with Gianluca, with the help of Gianluca, that with me also read all the documents and we also, as I anticipated, studied a little bit of the system with AI, because who will kill with AI will also die for AI, and so basically we decided to make some analysis of your work with AI. But the idea today is that we will do the same things that we have to do. We can do also presence. So one by one, will present the case. You can decide who obviously will present the case if you are a group. And then we will make a final evaluation after this. And then we also argue a little bit the arguments.

And then we will have a discussion. I hope that we will finish before 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, five or something like that. Then we will have a break. And we will continue the lesson with Dr. Stefano Fattepietro. As I also wrote in the email to all of you, he is just another person that will present you some aspect that is professional life. And also, I would like that he will present you the project of, the project he did with open source and digital forensics, because it's also an interesting story that I like that you listen from him. The only problem is that he will, he will prefer to speak Italian. So for the non Italian speaking person, I think that for the time being, there are no Italian, non Italian speaking person, but I will make the translation. Or anyway, I can make the transition depends of obviously, if there is someone here today, that is not Italian speaking differently. We can make this a short exception to, to have the opportunity to hear Stefano Fattepietro. And then we will finish the lesson. We will make a recap. So I think that we are now only 30, but perhaps some other person will arrive during the morning.

I hope that this person will be the same. So I will start. And I would start. It was a bad idea. Okay, yes, perhaps I, yes, I think that is Stefano Falco. That, oh, no, we can start up because Stefano Falco, Gianluca sent me only yesterday because he made a mistake with the translation. Yeah, I'm sorry. Yeah, don't worry, don't worry. But we have need a little time to make the analysis with AI. So we can start how you did not put the name. So I need your help. There is a Sentinel case. I will show you Sentinel case. Who is the author of this activity? It's me, Professor.

Alessio. Yes. Okay. So you can change your camera if you're open, if you're able to open the camera. Alessio, thanks a lot. And you can start with your presentation. Okay. So my case was the Sentinel case in the dispute between Virtual Health and Red Shield. I have put on the second page, the table of contents. But let's start with the presentation of the two entities. So the main issue is that a healthcare institution, Virtual Health, a public healthcare entity, has been attacked with a tool which was developed by Red Shield SPA. Now, Red Shield SPA, in this framework, is an Italian company, which is active in the field of advanced defense, advanced defensive cybersecurity. And the main activities of Red Shield is adversary emulation, malware simulation, and authorized penetration testing. So the tool in the question, which is Sentinel, is a proprietary Red Shield tool used to reproduce malware-like behavior in controlled environments.

Now, after in the discussion, Red Shield provided a lot of documentations, mostly related to an aware usage of the tool Sentinel, described internally as a high-criticality dual-use tool, meaning that it is not only capable, this tool, to imitate attack behaviors and vectors, but also, but can also alterate and even destruct designed digital assets. Of course, as the documentation states, only when engagement expressly authorizes destructive validations.

So, the main points, the main points, the main events, are these ones. On the 3rd of February, I've put this here, but okay. So, on the 3rd of February, Red Shield detects an anomalous activity. So, and there was an authorized access that allowed the theft of several assets among an internal build of this tool Sentinel. Even templates, partial documentations related to the usage of this tool. So, the attackers could get the knowledge of this tool and how to use it, even outside the internal design, the internal perimeter which was designed for this tool.

Then, only two days later, Red Shield files a formal report with the Italian Polizia Postale and also proceeded in several ways to isolate the compromised environment, revoking tools credentials, also certificates revolving around the theft of Sentinel and their assets. So, here, a key point is that virtual health legal action, now I will explain why virtual health is involved, is not based on the concealment of the theft, which was legally and completed, sorry, legally reported.

But the accusation focuses on the technical nature of Sentinel. So, the existence of a real tool capable of alteration and destruction of assets, and even a careless containment of this tool. But next, in the events, on the 21st of March, so several days later, virtual health detects several anomalies across multiple healthcare information systems, which affected several points, such as the CUP, the CUP booking portal, laboratory report consultation systems, logging systems, and even more critical aspects of the infrastructure.

The observed technical sequence shows the use of a somehow-like component consistent with Sentinel, so a modular component probably involved in the attack. I have also put the sequence, the ordered sequence of how the attack was carried out. And next, the point is that there was a forensic investigation of virtual health after the incident with the attack. And this correlation with the Sentinel tool was approved. So, there are these relationships. I have put several pages of the related to the chain of custody of this forensic lab, which worked for the forensic investigation.

So, I will go straight to the main forensic conclusion, which is that the artifacts collected allow the investigators to conclude that the component used in the attack is attributable to the Sentinel family, and the build is related to the tool stolen by RedShield on the 5th of February. And the alteration and destruction effects observed on a virtual health portal and systems are technically consistent with the capabilities of the Sentinel tool. Such capabilities were internally inside RedShield labeled as a controlled destructive validation module.

So, a portion of the tool capable of such things. So, alteration and destruction. So, the main internal safeguards of RedShield were a lot, meaning that they show an aware containment and usage of the tool. So, I have cited the organizational model under the Legislative Decree 231, also the internal register of dual use tool, the duality of this tool that I have described before, risk classification of modules, rules of engagement, meaning that the usage of the tool was that the entity was strictly under the approval of the interested entities and everything was under a strict control, the usage of this tool.

And many, many more documents. But let's now focus on the accusatory premise. So, Virtual Health formulated an accusation based on the fact that the attack affected healthcare information systems, which can be considered as an asset of national interest, because it is a public infrastructure, a healthcare public infrastructure. The attack produced the unavailability of the services, also alteration to files and assets, and even destruction of some of them. And, of course, the tool is attributable to Sentinel belonging to RedShield.

So, that's the point of the accusation. And, of course, Virtual Health was, at the time of the accusation, not aware of key RedShield's internal safeguards, because this whole presentation will be about the defense of RedShield. So, the accusation can be seen under the Article 615 of the Italian Criminal Code, meaning that there has been an authorized access to virtual healthcare information systems, which were, of course, protected. And the forensic analysis established the use of Sentinel attributable to RedShield.

So, yes, this is for the Article 615 Ter. Sorry, just to ask you, because we have a lot of elaboration. I think that if you can finish in two minutes, it's perfect. Okay, thanks. I will rush. No, just because we needed to do this before Stefano Fertepietro and just for a matter of time. I'm sorry for that. No, no, of course, of course. But it's really interesting how you presented the case. So, I really appreciate your exposition. Sorry for interruption. No worries. No worries. So, there are several accusations under Article 615 quarter, quarter, sorry, 613.5 bis even. But the key points regarded the usage and awareness of the destructive capabilities of Sentinel.

So, I will go straight to the defensive line. So, RedShield's defense revolves around mainly the, well, in premise, the subjective element and mensarea, meaning that RedShield did not intend to assess virtual health systems, did not carry out the attack, and, of course, denies any involvement. So, with the attack, and, of course, among the documented, well, presented a lot of documentation. So, the first report field with the Polizia Postale, well, the policies are about the internal destructive validation related to this tool.

So, it was an aware usage of it, and, well, mainly the key point is that virtual health suffered a disruption, loss of operational continuity, and other main problems. But RedShield does not, but RedShield is not involved and developed Sentinel as a professional defensive validation tool, which is the key point. So, it is, it was strictly used in authorised context, and RedShield surrounded the tool with contracts, rules of engagement, legal reviews, which is, which can be found in documentation that I have cited among the PDF.

So, the attacker, the attackers abused a stolen component, and operated it outside the legal, technical, and organizational perimeter that gave the tool its lawful meaning. So, sorry for the final rush, but that's the key point of my, and final point of my presentation. Thanks, Alessio. I'm sorry for you if I make a rush, but basically, just for the next presentation, I would ask you to be on six, seven minutes for each. So, we have the time to describe everyone, because there is also our point of view, our discussion, and it's important also for you to have our evaluation, and we say to simulate in a certain sense what is a trial. So, basically, Gianluca, I start with you. What is your opinion? Then I give my opinion. We work like this. So, obviously, it's very good as a work. There's a point which can be raised also with reference to other presentations.

You must be very, very careful when you use the term dual use, because it has a very specific meaning within the context of malware industry and research industry, which makes reference to an EU regulation. Dual use in this context means that this is something which has a civil and possibly military purpose. It doesn't mean it's something which can be used for good and can be used for bad. So, whenever you make reference to dual use, this is something which might be slippery, because you are not exactly using the terms which are being used legally, from a legal perspective, in this kind of industry. The other point, your defense, as far as a 615, yeah, fair enough, but it would be much easier just to say, well, the theft just broken the causal link, the nesso causale, and therefore, we are not involved.

There is no evidence that we, as a company, have been involved in the attacks per se, therefore, just dismiss the case in that regard. As far as a 615 quarter, again, something which is relevant also for others, almost no one of you or just no one of you in the class raised the issue of how the exploits or malware or whatever have been developed or purchased or anyhow gotten, because that's the real issue. So, I'm just spoiling it a bit, 615 quarter says that you have to be in a possession or distribute or whatever in a lawful, not abusing, abusive way. But what if, and that's something I leave to your reasoning, what if, in order to get this kind of tool, I, myself, am liable according to 615 third.

Just imagine, I'm a researcher, in order to get some knowledge, in order to discover a malware or a vector of attack, in order to test and probe anything, I have to reverse engineer a device or a system, and in order to do so, I have to circumvent, let's say, let's just say, not breach, to circumvent some security measures which the developer or the manufacturer or the device has put in place. Just imagine, just imagine, if I have to find an exploit for an iPhone, I have to reverse engineer and to go beyond the security measures which Apple has put in place in order for people not to breach the security of the iPhone. Then, I might be liable for this exact action, according to 615 third. And that means that anything which I have in my toolkit, which is then used for my business, might be of abusive origin.

The very same thing, if I purchase a zero-day or exploit for a third party, that might be a crime by itself. We are not going into that, but then again, you take for granted that if you are using the tool within the line of business, your legitimate line of business, you are safe. Well, sometimes yes, sometimes no. And that's it. Anyway, very good. I think you were a bit worried about the abusive access, 615 third. As I was saying, in this case, you were not the agent and therefore there was no evidence. No one was even claiming you were the agent. They were just saying, well, you are responsible for developing the weapon and therefore you are responsible for the attack. It doesn't fly. It doesn't fly at all. Then again, finished. Let's move on. And anyway, very, very good work. Thank you for your points.

Thanks, Gianluca. I agree with your points. Basically, you have raised all the points that also I want to do. I think that, yes, just a comment about 615. First of all, it's the first exercise. I decided to put a little bit of complexity just because normally we do a laboratory based on technical issue and digital forensics, and it's not a legal context. In this case, we have just a legal scenario. So it's normal to have some, I don't know what to say in precision, but a different approach rather than an attorney. But this is not an excuse for anybody of you, but just to remind to myself that you are not at the law university.

The point is, yes, there is a lot of worry about 615 terror. I also to admit that it is one of the risks. Also because you have to consider that in the case law or in a courtroom, what happens is that normally the judge is more keen to use some crime or some crime that are more often known by the jurisprudence and the case law. So that's why also the route of 615 terror is not a negative route. But at the same time, I agree, I agree about all the comments and basically the main issue that Gianluca explained at the beginning.

So thanks a lot, Alessio. Thank you. If you want also to argue, to tell us something, there is no problem. If not, we can pass through Matteo Rizzo, Claudia Passaro and Giulia Foy. Buongiorno, professore. Buongiorno. And for you? Yes, if you can share, I will assign you the power to do. Perhaps it's better also for the other student. Who will speak? Who wants to share the screen? I will do it. Okay, so you are already authorized. Gianluca, I can comment that this is a problem for all the psychological problems, for all the persons that continue differently from you to work with the law.

So, if it does not need a degree to speak about it. Professore, mi scusi, ma per presentare devo uscire e poi rientrare? I think that it's not necessary, Claudia, to present. You need to present, you prefer to do that. If you do, we will wait you. It's not a problem. You take just one second. If you don't need it, you can start. It depends from you. If you prefer to do, to do. Yes, yes, I can start. I will do it. I will do it. Thank you. You can do it. Please. Nothing, I can say that the coordinator is disabled to share the screen of the participant's screen.

Okay. Eventually, Matteo wants to do that for you. I don't know. I gave you the authorization. Perhaps you are not able to do. In the past, it seems that it was possible. But just one second. No problem. Maybe it's better if you share the screen, Professor. Maybe I can.

Oh, no. Unfortunately, I guess, Giuseppe, you are the only one allowed to share. Yes, I will also give it to you the possibility to do that just for the future, but I can do for the time being. Okay, so, okay, you can start, Claudia. Thank you. So, our case study report was about company A and company B, in which company A is the one that, of course, created the malware, which is a company which delivers malware and software to other companies in order for them to improve their defenses and security. Then we have company B, which is the one that requested malware, or in this case, the software, because they wanted some kind of software which would perform some kind of operation related to deep packet inspection, threat modeling, and executive risk in order for them to find some kind of traces related to anti-money laundering.

Or this is what they requested the software at the beginning. In this case, they tried to request this kind of software in order to find some kind of pattern related to this anti-money laundering, and for this reason, there was this kind of contract between these two companies. But in this case, the real aim of the company B for the purchase of this software, in reality, was to perform some kind of inside trading for the bank. Because, of course, I forgot to say that company B is a bank that requires this kind of software. And, of course, this inside trading was found out, and the victims, of course, are the client which performed their own operations, which were a victim of the company B. And, of course, the main character of this kind of report is the product, which is called BridgeSim, which, principally, performs some kind of deep packet inspection, as I said before, threat modeling, and risk compliance.

So, we have the two accusations, the one made by the PM, against, of course, the company B for inside trading. So, the charges were under Article 615 terror, because, of course, they abused this kind of software, which aim at the beginning was for something, and then, after that, it was used for other scopes. And then, we have, of course, Company A, which is the vendor, which was accused to provide this code, this software, to this Company B. And so, their charges fall under Article 615 quarter, because they gave, of course, this code, that would break the system, or they would interfere with the system infrastructure. And then, of course, there is an accusation by the clients, which are the victims of this action with software. And they accused Company A of selling this kind of software to a private company, because, usually, this kind of software were, are sold to, maybe, some kind of public infrastructure, like, government, and things like that.

And, of course, they accused Company A to provide this software to Company B, in order for them to gather some kind of profit or benefit from the inside trading made by Company B. Of course, we performed the defense of Company A. which provided the software, and, mainly, we will discuss about how this contract was made, and, especially, what kind of words were inserted in the contract, in order for Company A be misleaded by Company B. Because, as we said, Company B searched this kind of software for anti-money laundering, which is, of course, some, which is, of course, illegal. And, the banks are requested to investigate on some kind of things inside their own, of course, client. So, they, they, they, they requested this kind of software for anti-money laundering. Then, they requested these kind of things, which were the packet threat modeling, and anti-introspection, and executive risk, which are used for defense purpose, because they, they are something used for defense purpose.

And, then, they, they specifically requested some kind of SSL decrypted packets, the, in order to also find out the trade of those kind of packets. So, this is the part in which we discuss about what kind of words were used inside the contract that misleaded the company. After that, of course, the thing that the company was accused about gathering some kind of profit by delivering this kind of software to Company B. In reality, there is no, there is no, there is no trace about that thing, because the company didn't get any profit, there is no trace about the benefits or things like that. So, we are sure that Company B deliver just this malware or this kind of software to Company B and then get anything back. And, of course, we need to consider that we, Company B is a bank. So, it means that they have some kind of reputation. So, there is also this principate affidament in which Company A saw the software to a bank, in which, of course, you don't create a bank from nothing without any guarantee, any, without any surveillance.

So, in this case, there is a reputation of the Company B that made the Company A trust Company B, and also the thing that the software was made, of course, for legitimate purposes rather than, of course, other purposes. Because we might think that, yeah, Company A should have prevented this kind of thing, but in reality, since it was for another scope and the requests made by Company B were right to the scope of AML. In this case, it was a legitimate thing from Company A that this software was some kind of thing innocent. So, this is the defense. Thanks a lot. A couple of questions. A couple of questions. Please, please. A couple of questions. First of all, you said that the vendor did not profit from the malware software, let's say. Let's call it software right now. Did they give it as a gift to the bank or not?

No. Because if there was some sort of consideration for the sale or a licensing of the software, some profit has been made. I understand your point saying that the vendor did not profit directly from the crime of the executives abusing the tool. But then again, you cannot argue in your defense. Well, there was no profit, per se, in providing the tool. Another thing, which is sort of a challenge to you. You chose to make your life harder and easier in the same way because you chose to make an example of a kind of tool, wiretapping tool, which is very, very specific. And that means that if you were to work as a public prosecutor, you had also to take into consideration Article 2617 there and 617 quarter, especially a 617 quarter of the criminal code, which is detention of wiretapping devices and codes.

So you just concentrated on 615 and you forgot to tackle this kind of issue. Fair enough. It's not a problem. But then again, you made a choice describing your tool and saying, well, this is a wiretapping. It is an intercepting tool. It's your description of the tool. And therefore, you had, from a general perspective, hypothetically, to challenge also this kind of articles of the criminal code. Just remember, if you are dealing with wiretapping devices, it's not just 615, 635. There's also 617. I guess we can move. Yes. No, no, no. Don't worry. Oh, sorry. Sorry. If you want to add something. No, no. I think it was loudly I want to say something, but perhaps it was my perception. No, no. I just want to say that I understand the part of the profit.

What we meant in the report was about profit from insider trading rather than selling the software. Of course, selling the software took some kind of profit for a company. It was related to the insider trading factor, the illegal part that we may say. As you are engineers, or likely to be engineers, you need to be very precise. You said your own words. The company did not make any profit. If we were in a court of law, I would say, well, that's not true. Just show me your books. You make some profit. You made some profit by selling or licensing it not from the crime itself, but you made some profit. Therefore, the profit requirement of the law has been satisfied. Then there are other defenses which can be used. But then again, be very careful when you say something in absolute. Yes. Thank you. Thanks, Gianluca. So basically, I would like just to underline one thing that is important that was present in this elaborates.

That is the principio dell'affidamento. I think that this principle is really interesting because I do not know if you can apply in this context, just to be clear. But it is important for you to understand, especially in the next future, if you work in this field, because it happens that when the law enforcement, not the bank, but the law enforcement, you can also try to apply in this situation. But especially when the law enforcement task or something, even if this could be not perfectly legal or there are any kind of doubt about this, you could say that there is this principle that in a certain sense in work on the mens rea. So I like the fact that it's mentioned, the principle of the affidamento, I don't know how at the end, how do you translate the reliable principle or something like that, because it's something that it's also be useful for the future, especially when you are in, if you obviously want to do any kind of forensic activity, you are asked to do this activity for public purposes, I would say, so when there is the law enforcement or the prosecutor or the judge that asks you to do this kind of activity on the civil and or criminal side.

So, okay, thanks, thanks Claudia, thanks Matteo and compliments also for you. We can go and we can pass through the other, sorry I lost the case, okay, so one, two, three. Gaia Casellato, Valentina Scimia, Stefano Pietro Sternativo, Luigi Tatonetti, Pietro Vernuccio, Pierfrancesco Vicari, I think. Okay, good morning. I try to give you the power, see if for you, you are more lucky than Claudia. Claudia. Otherwise, if you tell me the name of your file, I guess I can just show it. The name is malware, malware company, mock case.

Yeah. Because I cannot share. Just give me a sec. It's strange because I don't know, I don't know why Gianluca, perhaps also Gianluca cannot share. No, Gianluca, I share. I can, I can. Strange. Okay. The difference. Thanks Gianluca. Thank you. Okay. So, basically we need the inspection. Oh. Can I start? Just guide me through when you want me to scroll. I'll do it. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Perfect. So, I go faster in the first part. So, I start with saying that we try to defense, of course, the commercial offensive security tools, the production of malware. And we try to construct a defense that bridges Italian criminal law, and depends on dissecting the extra wording of the Italian criminal code.

So, okay. We can go in the first, in the second part, the core legal defense. Sorry. The first page. Okay. So, basically we started looking at articles 615 quarter of the Italian criminal law that states that the possession distribution of access codes or means suitable for accessing a protected IT system. And the law states that the act is punishable only if committed for the purpose of obtaining a profit for themselves. And we try to do a little defense part by part. And then we analyze this better, deeper in the second part of this presentation. So, basically, a legitimate cybersecurity company develops this tool to understand the vulnerabilities, test defenses, and self-security intelligence or consulting services. In our personal opinion, the most important part is the moment of the production of the malware. Because we have to distinguish this from the moment of which any downstream is used by a third-party buyer.

Because it's different if the reason to produce this kind of malware is lawful. And so, this temporal distinction is critical because Italian criminal proceedings, as we know, require the proof beyond the reasonable doubt and without intercepted communication or internal documents, demonstrating that the company not only produced tools for illicit deployment. And this is the part where mens rea enters. Because mens rea, as we know, is the mental state or intent to commit a crime. So, without this proof, we cannot declare someone guilty. And we can move on to the part three, the element of authorization. And also going through the article 615 there, which punishes anyone who unlawfully or abusively gains access to a computer system protected by security measures. And the central part is the word unlawful, because it's the crucial filter, as we mentioned.

In Italian legal terms, these invoke the principle of consent of the right holder, which means that between the company who produces the malware and the company who actually buy the service must be a consent. And so, this argument is strongest when framed not merely as factual claim about consent, but as a structural ambiguity in the law itself. Because the statute has never been judicially updated to address a company that produces tools used exclusively within authorized contractually scoped engagements. And so, basically, in this part, it also enters the dual use nature, as you mentioned before, which is part four. And a clear example that can be understood by everybody is that a hammer can build a house or break a window, because the tool itself is neutral, but it's the use we make of it that decide if it's good or not, or better, lawful or unlawful.

And we choose a company, which is RCS SPA, and is in the part five of this document. RCS SPA, which is Italian cybersecurity firms. And in the site of these firms, it is explicitly mentioned their code of ethics, which can be a robust demonstration of of liability of the law. But, for instance, in this code of ethics, we can find that the personnel must be strictly forbidden from accessing systems beyond authorized limits and so over. However, even if we mention the code of ethics in a court term, in the moment of court judgment, it's not enough. Because we have to prove that this firm effectively adopted and implemented an adequate organizational model.

And so the defense must require some documentary that, for example, are the Organismo di Vigilanza, which is the supervisory body with independent external members and documented oversight activity that states that this firm actually is not doing, taking any profits from the selling of their product of malware. And also, a record of refused contracts is also very important, because with clients that are assessed as high risk, demonstrating that their HATIC model actually constrains revenue-generating activity. Also, end-user agreements are the most important, because they have clauses prohibiting the misuse by the third party. Audit trails showing that the tool distribution was locked and limited to verified authorized recipients. And also, which is not so mentioned, this part, the whistleblower protection mechanism, which means that the employees can report misuse without any consequences, because many times they are afraid to say something just to be maybe fired in the future.

So we can move on to part six. The most important problem was this kind of company is the problem of stating why they are producing, actually, this malware and the moment of origin of its capabilities. So a defensible company must maintain also an auditable provenance record for every capability. And they have to present the legitimate sourcing, including that they are doing internal research only, for example, in labs or in their environment, which is maybe a virtual machine or something like that. Also, legitimate bug bounty participation, discovering vulnerabilities through vendor authorized programs. So everything must be traced with coordinate disclosure timelines under the ISO regulation.

And then CVE-based development, so working exclusively from publicly disclosed and patched vulnerabilities, never from undisclosed zero-day traded ongoing markets, because this can be the source of retrieving misuse of the creation of a malware, which is just done on a zero-day vulnerability. And also can be done in academic and public research, building on openly disclosed peer-reviewed vulnerability research with documented attribution. So everything must be traced and written. Like it can be a forensic investigation, but on the defense of the creation of a malware. And also in part seven, which is the last one, we have to justify the good production of our framework. So basically, a legitimate producer doesn't collect vulnerabilities, but its relationship with the broader security ecosystem must include mandatory disclosure timelines.

And so in part 7.2, we can see that the authorization and constant defense only holds if the company generally controls who receives its tools, actually. So this requires that they know their customer processes, and they use hand-use certificates that legally bind the declaration from clients specifying the exact use of the tool that they are buying. Ongoing monitoring obligations are very important because it stands for a contractual rights to audit client usage and terminate agreements. And also explicit exclusion list documented the refusal to sell to governments or entities with documented human rights violation, regardless of commercial pressure. And the part that we found personal, I don't know if you can hear me because they are doing work. No worries, we can hear you.

Okay. One of the most important parts that we found very interesting is that the scope limitation can be built into the tools themselves that we are selling. For example, we can actually, our code target restriction. So in the code we are selling, we can make that there's these tools function against pre-authorized IP ranges or system. So making the use of these tools to other companies impossible, actually limiting their misuse. Also timely limited payloads, capabilities can expire after the fine engagement window, and immutable audit logging. Every deployment generates a log accessible to both client and producer, and no persistent mechanism tools engineer to leave no lasting foothold. So making them structurally unsuitable for long-term cover surveillance. And these parts can be built directly into the tools we are saying, so that a third party cannot actually use and deploy them in other kind of environment.

And yes, there's the last part, 7.4. A legitimate producer does not explore regulatory gaps, but it actively participate in closing them. So there's also an engagement with ENISA and equivalent national cybersecurity bodies that, with their annual transparency, try to report covering these tools developed and client categories serves and requests refused. So this was our study. So, a couple of things very, very quickly. I do really appreciate your argument on the mens rea, the criminal intent. Just please be advised, you are not going to be a lawyer. It's not as straightforward as you wish it were, because there are different kinds of mens rea, the intent.

There is what is called dolo specifico e dolo generico. There are different kinds of crimes. There are crimes which require that an actual fact or action or event occurs and others that are reati di pericolo. 615 quarter is a reato di pericolo. It doesn't need for you to willfully want to commit a crime or to profit from a crime. It just requires you to want to get or develop something for the purpose of, but it does not require an actual crime to be committed. So, it's a bit of a different. Another thing I want to leave you as a question, I don't want an answer, but you raised the issue of 231. Then Giuseppe is going to kill me because that is real core.

It's not mine. The question is, if you have a system which is, in a way, breached because a certain crime has been committed, which falls within the scope of 231, how can you say that that kind of system is adequate and the measures you have adopted are effective? So, the effective analysis system which is breached, how can you demonstrate that it is effective? Because from a very naive perspective, anything which is circumvented or breached is not effective. Because if it were effective, the breach would not have been occurred. That's something for your reflection only. It's not a criticism, whatever. But then again, when you go that route, just please be advised that very easy.

It used to be a claim raised by public prosecutors, especially in the past years. Nowadays, it's not so straightforward. But it used to be a claim or an argument. How can you say you were effective if you were breached? Yeah, but maybe that's a question I have or a hypothesis. The courts examine whether the model, the framework we use was supervised and actually prevented the risk. So, effectively, the supervisory body checked if we stay to hold the agreements we have. Yeah, but again, if you check everything, and after you have checked everything, something which is false within the scope of 231 occurs, then how could you say that your check was effective? Okay. That's it. Let's move on. Anyway, very good job.

No. Yes, it's a good job. I also understand the point of Gaia and his team. I would also, a little bit, just make a comment. I really appreciate, anyway, the work. As Gianluca already said, I think that all the works are very good. Obviously, what Gianluca probably tried to explain to you that we need to pay attention to any single word when this is the lesson learned today. But it's also true that you did not have the time. I would like to make a little bit lower off the student because normally you don't have a time constraint when you do a defense. Yes, it happens. It happens. It happens a lot of time because sometimes when you are in a courtroom, the judge could change the timing and the strategy in a second, and you are subject to the willingness of the judge.

So you need to be prepared also to decide and to have a strategy, a defensive strategy in 10 minutes. But apart from that, the issue that is important is that the role of the supervisory body is perhaps not so active, as you mentioned, just for your experience, because it's more a role of control, but it's in high control. I would say just also to keep the possibility to remain independent. So this is a technical issue, but for your experience, because when you will see the 231 supervisory body now is very often used by the company, because in Italy, there is a compulsory. In some situations, it's compulsory to have that kind of supervisory body.

The role that you put in these elaborates is not what it is in the reality, but it's not a mistake, just an information for you. And so you basically know that it's not realistic, but it's also true that you don't know exactly what is this role. If it's necessary, you will know in the future. So we can continue. Thank you. Thanks, Guy, and thanks to all the team. We have an elaborate that is the one regarding the United Nations. It's not so that then the name is Laboratorio CFC. And then there is a number 8550 to 026. If you want to present. I don't know if the student is present. If you're there, just tell us.

We can continue and then perhaps it will appear. He will appear. Sarah Braidotti and Marta Gambarotta. Digital Forensics Laboratory 2. Good morning. We are here. Digital Forensics Lab 2. I've got a Lab 2 Digital Forensics 1134. Is that it? Yes. Yes. Thanks. Getting there. The floor is yours. Okay, I can start. Can you hear me? Yep. Okay. So we focused on a case of a company that sells malware to state institutions.

And we focused on the agreement stipulated with the Italian government. So we focused on the awareness of building something that, well, should not be built. And so on the scope that is the national security. Then we added the water market that is a matter of protection and of detection, because in this way, the company is able to recognize the use of its product. Another thing is that in order to prevent the exfiltration and the use of an employee, for example, we define a precise chain of custody and we implement the principle such as the need to know.

So in the production, each module is, well, no one has the full code, but everyone has just a part of it. And everything is recorded, so the geometric can record the use of the different modules. And, well, since we took the part of the lawyer, we recognize that no framework that is really dedicated to this type of malware, to weapons, we can call it weapons in this case, exists while it's really implemented.

So, Sara, do you want to go deeper? Yes. So, to support the defense, we can say that our company is operating in a gray zone and where, by technical definition, the software produced violates the article 615 quarter and 615 third of the Italian Penal Code. However, it does so under a strict bilateral agreement with the Italian government, with the scope of not causing damage to the others. And the company wants to provide tools for national security, anti-terrorism and organized crime investigations. So, to mitigate the risk of prosecution and prevent the weaponization of its tools, the company employed a multi-layered defense and governance strategy.

The first point, with the first point, we want to underline that the company is acting under a bilateral agreement made with the Italian government that provides them the legal mandate for development of the software. So, for that, we shifted the criminal intent state in the penal code to a state-authorized activity. Then, the company decided to put some technical safeguards inside its software. It put some watermarks that are some unique and reputable watermarks in every software that they sold.

And thanks to these watermarks, the attribution of... So, in the event that the malware is discovered in the wild, for example, during an investigation, the watermark allows the company to identify exactly which state institution that they lost its software that they lose its software or sold to third parties. And it's also used to prove that their software was misused by the client or was theft by their clients. So, then, like third point, they guarantee an operational isolation and chain of custody of their software. So, to prevent internal infiltrations, they use a cellular development model.

So, they put in place some code fragmentation. So, the developers of the company that are working on the software cannot understand the entire architecture of the software. So, they cannot sell illegally to others. And then, there is also, they put in place a chain of custody. So, every line of code is logged and with biometric or hardware authentication. And if a snippet of code leaks, the source is identifiable by the company. So, they can know who probably made the leak. And so, finally, we can say that the company is not producing the malware to create damage.

And even if it is making profit, this can trigger the article 615 quarter. But, to defend this point, we can say that the profit is not in an illegit motive, but as the legitimate economic remuneration for a service rendered to the state. So, the transaction is governed by the formal, the transaction of the profit is governed by a formal contract with the government. And the profit, of course, is transparent, taxed and legally contracted. And the profit can be considered as a commercial margin for high-tech service, not for improving, for making a cyber crime.

Thanks. First of all, a question. So, it's not clear for me which kind of relationship the company has with the Italian government. So, is it that he's basically a contractor working exclusively for the Italian government? You were mentioning this kind of agreement, the bilateral agreement. To a certain extent, any agreement is bilateral. You're not. You're obviously agreeing with yourself. The agreement is between at least the two parties. But that's kind of a joke. But anyway, first of all, I need to understand whether, again, you are just a contractor. What you're doing, you are doing on being instructed by the Italian government only. Or if you're doing your job, you're making your research, whatever, and it just happens that your main client is the Italian government. But it's a chance if, say, the United States government or another EU government comes to your company, you are more than happy to work with them, just to understand.

Well, the clients of the company are governments only. And the Italian government, to regulate the sale of the software, made this agreement with the company to regulate to which countries they can sell the software. Fair enough. Fair enough. Fair enough. A general remark. Almost all of you, almost with air quotation marks, are discussing the topic of the profit required by Article 615 quarter. Please, just read the article again. There is no mention of profit. It's mentioned an advantage or a damage. No profit. And that means that any advantage, which is not of an economic nature, is covered by the rule.

So you're making your own defenses. You're not the only one. I'm taking you an example, but it's not against you personally. You will make this point that the profit, it's not the profit from an unlawful activity. Fair enough. But you are limiting your scope to profit. What if, take an example, your client gets an advantage, an intelligence advantage, from using your product? That kind of requirement of the rule is triggered because they are getting an advantage. It is lawful. Again, it might be lawful. It might be unlawful. But that's, again, with the aim of getting a third party gain an advantage. And that's the text of the rule. It's not profit. It's not profit. There have been a lot of arguments because in some part of the Italian legal system, you are talking about profit.

In other parts, you are talking about lucro, which is different from profit. Now we are talking about advantages or damages. I guess the very first lesson of my professor at the university in civil law was if a different word is used in the law, it has a different meaning. Therefore, you have to be very careful. Again, words are important. As in code, as in coding, you have to pay attention to that. And that's the main remark I want to make according to your work. But then again, it's something which is applicable to other works as well. Just please be advised that a defense challenging the absence of profit or the absence of an illicit profit might not be enough. Okay. Okay, thank you.

I think we can move forward. Who's next? I don't have. Thanks, Gianluca. I don't have any particular comments. I think that you have already told everything. We can go through laboratory forensics and cybercrime analysis too with Christian Chiappa, Luca Ferretti, Gaetano Penneriva, Michele Suffredini. The file is lab two forensics final. Yeah. All right. Getting there. Good morning. Floor is yours. Floor is yours. Okay. I think that we can start with a fast review of the company. So was the other colleague. Our company in this case is our research company, and we create a cell to the other companies.

So specifically, it is our research company in which produce these tools for vulnerability research, production testing, malware analysis. So it allows the company to test their own infrastructure, for example, or they can study their own vulnerabilities of maybe their systems. So allow them to give a sort of shield. So our first line of defense starts from the contractor point of view. Because, yeah, well, our company sell these products to other companies, but there have to be some limitation starting from the purpose limitation. So the software need to be used for only for internal activities and for what concerns the security of their own company.

So the software could be used only against the system owned and controlled, like virtual machines, known infrastructure. And, for example, a possible clause of the contract can be that they have to be used according to the law. So everything that is done must be documented. So all the cybersecurity activities with the tool must be documented. And these can defend against, for example, the 615 TER. And the second clause may be the one about the transfer and sub-license, the land and disclosure to the software to other companies. In fact, the software sell to these companies must be regretted also that the other company must not be able to sell it.

And another part of the contract has to be also with the user on who will use the tool itself. So we need for each operator assigned to the tool, the full name, its role, its training, because we need that you have to be a researcher without any problems with the law. And in this way, we track everything. So also we use this tool from the other company also on which we are selling it. And the third part of our defense is based also on the traceability of the product. Because, as we said, we sell it to the other company. But what happens when this tool can be leaked, for example? So to each tool, we give a specific ID. We associate it with the client. We use the ID, a watermarker. All the locks are performed on the tool.

And everything is tracked by the company itself. And so it allows to see if the copy has been modified after the delivery, if it can be leaked or who use it. If it is used against a third party, which is not authorized or for something that it is not allowed. And I think that it's pretty fast to explain. I simplify a lot. So many of the remarks, I've already made them. So I'm not repeating myself. Just one point, which is maybe a bit funny. Your defense is based on argument one. The company operated as a cybersecurity research company, not as an anonymous malware distributor. You're saying you're a legitimate business. Well, that's exactly what you need to prove. It's not a defense. It's exactly what you need to prove.

Because, of course, it's not just, oh, well, it's an incorporated business. It's an SRL. So it must be legitimate. No. Of course, there are a number of crimes which are being committed through businesses, let's say. And they are not legitimate. So it's a bit of a naive line of defense. It's exactly what you have to prove. It's not your defense. Yes. I would like to write something in order to understand that. I see your point. I'm acting like a public prosecutor slash a court of law saying, well, I appreciate you think you are legitimate, but we are here just to prove that. Yes. That's the final point. Tell their arguments, of course, I've already raised them as far as the requirements of the law and so forth. Anyway, good job. Yes. I think that, yes, I agree with you. I appreciate this work is clean and it makes sense.

Obviously, probably I would say, I cannot, I'm not able to say that it will have a real result in a court. But anyway, it's an exercise. So I really appreciate the effort. Thanks, Gaetano. And then we go to the last three. Okay. I think that we will do one and then probably we stop for a break, also for us. And then we continue with Stefano Fertepetto at 10.30. So I think that this is the most rational thing. And the last one before the break is Alessio Giumarra, Jacopo Nicola, Salvatore Francesco Indino, Emanuele Emiliano Salvetto. And the file is a defense report malware company. Hello, everyone. Hey, you hear me? Yeah.

Loud and clear. Please. Okay. Okay. So I will start. In this report, examine the criminal liability of a company that develops and sells malware on the market. We take an assumption that this software is applied exclusively to institutional or qualified clients under government agreement or authorization or contract that express explicitly the clauses over restricting the use to a lawful and controlled kind of purpose. And we aim to demonstrate that under this assumption, these activities are permitted under the Italian law, specifically under article 615 ter and quarter of the Italian criminal code.

So we first analyzed the article 615 and quarter that is about the possession and distribution of access device. In particular, we focused on one word that is abusivamente, so abusive or unlawful. In fact, the offense classified as a criminal danger, it requires first a specific intent, so . And secondly, two specific conditions must be met. And they have both asked to be present. The first thing is that the conduct must be abusive, as I was saying, and then that it must be directed towards causing harm or obtaining unlawful profit. So not profit in general. And in this case, both of the elements are absent. In fact, the production in our company takes place in a fully authorized and regulated and documented context.

And the mere technical suitability of the software does not ground criminal liability. In fact, the criminal law does not punish the creation of this advanced technological tool per se, but only the functional abuse when they are directed to illegal or unlawful goals. I can leave the floor to Jacopo for the next part. Yeah, we can continue with the article 650 Nater, which states that the conduct must be something like an introduction or persistence in an information system. which is protected by security measures. But for malware company, it is not the case because the company just develops malware. Maybe it is tested on the company itself in order to understand if it works or not.

But the purpose of the malware of the company is to send malware to other entities. So there is not a direct access to information systems. And also, there's not a participation concourse under the article 110 of Penal Code, because anti-malware companies only sell the malware to authorize entities such as Italian states or other states that are allowed by Italian states, or for example, university or anti-malware companies that has clearly stated that they won't use malware in order to cause harm. After that, anti-malware company has the legal ground for the dual use technologies, which states that that can be used also both for civil use and for military use.

And for that, there is a legal ground in order to use this technology. Before, we need to get an authorization from the Italian state, and then we are transparent and we do not have much problems. And that's all for our presentation. Thanks. I've got just a question for you. Just in the screen right now, at point two, let's say, it must be directed towards causing harm or obtaining an unlawful profit. Putting aside the argument I made before, but the strictly text of the law saying a profit, the one you are reporting, which is not the one which is current, let's say. Where did you get the unlawfulness of the profit?

Let's read. Let's stop there. And you're saying, it must be directed towards causing harm, fair enough, or obtaining an unlawful, and you made it bold, unlawful profit. Maybe it is a translation for abusive. Maybe we... But it's not in the rule, it's abusive. It's not referring to the profit, but it's referring to getting, obtaining, detaining, and so forth. Okay. It's not saying an illicit, abusive profit. It's saying a profit whatsoever. Okay. That's a provocation from my point of view, because you are right. But it's not in the text.

It was a decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Court in Italy, saying, yeah, when we're talking about profit within the framework of the criminal code, it must be an illicit profit. So maybe you shoot a shot at the moon and you got it. But it was just, I was just testing you whether you make a reasoning, a sound reasoning, or it was, sorry to be very blunt, a shot of luck. Anyway, that's fine. Anyway, that's fine. Just please remember that whenever in the criminal code we are talking about profits, it has to be an unlawful profit. It's not just a profit whatsoever. And that's it. And that's it. I guess we can move to the break. Again, good job. Thanks. Again, you raised a good point. It was not very thoroughly argumented, but then again, you gave me the occasion to tackle this kind of issue.

Thank you. Thank you. I like this team. It's the team that won the last time. So I think that it's a good team. Even today, it was a little bit harder to say who is the best. But you will have the answer after the break and after Stefano Fertipietro. So now we have to stop 15 minutes and we will have a short conversation with Fertipietro. And we will connect both again at 10.30. And then we will have Fertipietro. Bye to all. Thank you. Bye. Okay.

In one second, Stefano Fertipietro will join us. One second again.

Hi, Stefano. How are you? Mi sentite? Sì. Loud and clear. Sì. Stavo pensando che con l'età appunto poi succedono anche queste cose che non sai neanche più far funzionare una videota. Se è partito bene, è un giovane prodigio, poi arrivi ad una certa età e manca un Mac. Sono gli anza. Va bene. Allora, diciamo che saluto Stefano che appunto è un amico oltre che un ottimo Forenser e appunto ti avevo mandato una traccia di tre domande sulla quale appunto possiamo trascorrere una mezz'oretta insieme.

Ovisto, sorry, just give me the certainty that there is no non-Italian speaking in the room. Please, if you need any kind of translation, I will do immediately. But I see that all the participants here today are Italian, so we can continue in Italian, but just to be sure about this. And then, stavo dicendo appunto che ti ho mandato tre punti che mi farebbe piacere che tu affrontassi per dare appunto il tuo punto di vista. E quindi se vogliamo, però se tu invece vuoi andare diciamo in maniera differente, vuoi dare una descrizione completamente diversa... Non seguiamo la tua traccia. Va bene, allora, se seguiamo la mia traccia, però ripeto, ti lascio... Perché poi ci tenevo a partire... Allora, abbiamo affrontato noi più la parte legale, poi c'è stato col professor Azieni la parte tecnica, alcuni tool sono stati menzionati nella parte tecnica, anch'io ne ho menzionato alcuni, ma non abbiamo ben spiegato dal punto di vista insomma anche storico, visto appunto la tua età purtroppo sempre peggiore e avanti con gli anni e quindi questo va bene, ma a parte questo, diciamo non abbiamo spiegato bene un po' che cosa è successo negli ultimi vent'anni e l'evoluzione, diciamo, perché è importante anche partire da certe distinzioni.

Io ho fatto durante la mia lezione un lungo ragionamento sull'importanza dell'open source, sulle discussioni che sono state fatte ai tempi e purtroppo un po' abbandonate, però il fatto che siano state abbandonate non significa che non debbano essere conosciute anche perché possono ancora ritornare in auge. Adesso l'altro giorno si parlava di Mike, che è questa alternativa nel settore legale dell'AI open source, che mi ha fatto venire in mente appunto una serie di tante cose che poi sono successe, ma non è Mike solo perché è la moda del momento, poi basta pensare a tutti i modelli open source che sono stati fatti nel mondo dell'AI generativa, però ripeto, secondo me quando parliamo di digital forensics è un pezzo in più, è un valore aggiunto in più un progetto open source per tantissime ragioni giuridiche che in parte ho spiegato, ma anche poi di sviluppo e tecnologiche. Quindi mi farebbe piacere che tu partissi dal racconto del progetto Defte, calcola che appunto abbiamo circa una mezz'oretta da adesso, quindi non abbiamo tantissimo tempo, una decina di minuti massima domanda.

Assolutamente. Tanto grazie per l'invito Giuseppe, sempre apprezzato anche quando è del vecchio, assolutamente è la verità, me la prendo e porto a casa. Credo comunque non ci sono più i capelli bianchi, che potrebbe essere un altro modo. No, no, ce l'ho, ce l'ho, lascia stare. Ce l'ho più di te forse. Se non la smettete di parlare di età davanti a me, giuro che vi butto fuori dalla room. Ciao Giallo, non ti avevo visto. Comunque, by the way, allora, il boom dei software open source legati alla parte di digital forensics non è stato un boom solo di marketing, ma proprio di un'esigenza tangibile. Questo perché parliamo di più di 15 anni fa ormai, il mercato delle analisi forensi da un punto di vista tecnico era prettamente legato a software closet commerciali e principalmente costosissimi, diciamo così.

Potete immaginare, soprattutto legato per esempio alle forze dell'ordine nazionali locali nostre, la difficoltà poi di espletare attività di indagini informatiche senza poi avere accesso a risorse per poter comprare questi software. E silentemente, questa è stata secondo me una rivoluzione silenziosa, tutta una serie di persone che si sono avvicinate al mondo della digital forensics hanno iniziato a sviluppare software che per alcuni contesti, faccio un esempio lampante quello delle timeline che ancora oggi è uno dei software più utilizzati al mondo per le timeline e open source rispetto a un software commerciale. Quindi con la nascita di questi e sviluppo con questi software ci si è accorto che la community si è creata silentemente una community, una rivoluzione silenziosa che ha portato poi a sviluppare tutta una serie di programmi che sono non solo diventati utilissimi ma addirittura potevano in parte sostituire e andare a colmare quei gap che non si potevano colmare per le realtà che non avevano grosse risorse da comprare.

Il problema di tutti questi tool è che erano veramente tantissimi dovevi conoscerli non c'era ancora la divulgazione scientifica che c'è oggi o comunque che è nata undici anni fa dove oggi veramente con una ricerca su Google si trova tutto e quindi l'idea di creare poi il progetto DEFT che ha citato Giuseppe prima nasce proprio da qui perché la sigla di DEFT è Digital Evidence Forensics Toolkit quindi di creare una valigetta degli attrezzi onnicomprensiva in modo tale che chi deve doveva fare attività di indagini informatiche non doveva impazzire ad andarsi a cercare sui vari repository i vari siti perché non esisteva ancora GitHub per intenderci all'epoca sui vari siti personali dei vari sviluppatori tutti questi software e quindi l'idea è stata abbastanza semplice cioè quella di creare appena di tutto un sistema operativo una distribuzione Linux che non andasse se eseguita sul computer target ad alterare l'originalità dei dati quindi andare ad alterare i metadati dei dati e in secundis poi fare sempre una ricerca continua di questi software oltre che svilupparne poi lato community di Deft alcuni in parte perché all'epoca soprattutto le persone che dovevano spettare queste attività soprattutto lato forza dell'ordine non erano dei gran tecnici come magari ci sono oggi perché proprio all'inizio quindi ci ritrovavamo persone che a stento sapevano usare veramente Windows quindi l'altro obiettivo fu quello di creare tutta una serie di faricidizzazioni per l'utilizzatore nel compiere dalle azioni più basilari a quelle più complesse e da qui ho un'idea personale mia nata insieme alla collaborazione poi dell'Università di Bologna del CIRSFID e della Facoltà di Giurisprudenza perché all'epoca lavoravo lì e col professor Maioli da lì poi è cresciuta pian piano fino ad arrivare un picco di persone che hanno contribuito al progetto se non ricordo male è stato di 12 persone e progetto che però come negli appunti inviati da Giuseppe mi ha fatto facile giustamente notare progetto che oggi non esiste più non esiste in più perché l'errore di creare community come queste secondo me è partita almeno dal mio punto di vista dal più grande errore cioè quello di considerarci tutti amici ed è sbagliatissimo perché anche i progetti open source e i progetti di community devono avere una piccola gerarchia al loro interno altrimenti diventa un'anarchia totale ci si perdono i compiti ci si perde soprattutto l'obiettivo quello di sviluppare il progetto in un certo modo e poi come i rapporti umani non sono assolutamente semplici e quindi poi le cose si sfasciano e quindi il progetto poi è andato lentamente a spegnersi e a morire anche se ho scoperto proprio la settimana scorsa che alcuni pazzi ancora oggi so che fanno delle acquisizioni utilizzando Death Zero che era una versione molto light dedicata proprio per le acquisizioni forensi per farle in velocità quindi questo in breve Giuseppe non so se ho risposto alla tua diciamo domanda iniziale il motivo per cui l'anno Death e poi come si è voluto Sì ti faccio io una velocissima domanda poi se ci sono anche domande da parte vostra potete accendere telecamera il microfono anche usare la chat è un momento anche di confronto poi anche tu Gianluca mi farebbe piacere il tuo spunto visto che hai vissuto anche tu tutta quella evoluzione qual è il vantaggio tecnico lascia perdere l'aspetto giuridico della tracciabilità che è quello che io ho cercato di spiegare agli studenti che è importante perché dobbiamo essere sempre più diciamo essere certi nell'ambito giudiziale ma qual è il vantaggio di un progetto open source in ambito forense lasciando perdere l'aspetto umano le problematiche per cui si è chiuso Certo due vantaggi secondo me che li metto veramente in parallelo uno la velocità di esecuzione cioè se hai bisogno di una nuova feature di correggere un bug o di parlare direttamente con lo sviluppatore per richiedere appunto una nuova feature non devi passare per i vari senatori e quindi hai un accesso diretto a chi lo sviluppa al codice stesso e quindi puoi anche in maniera molto più veloce rispetto agli altri progetti velocizzare lo sviluppo del progetto stesso e sviluppare magari un supporto che in quel momento non c'è e l'altro vantaggio in dubbio è vedere come funzionano cioè uno dei problemi nelle attività di indagini forensi guardate per esempio so che è un hype però lo dico non per continuare l'hype sul caso Garlasco x anni fa le analisi sui metadati hanno prodotto un risultato in realtà oggi si è scoperto che ce n'era un altro ancora questo perché?

perché probabilmente il software utilizzato all'epoca non permetteva un'analisi approfondita come invece si può fare oggi ma perché si può fare oggi quel tipo di analisi approfondita? perché probabilmente tante persone come me e voi hanno contribuito poi al miglioramento delle analisi di questi metadati quindi questo è uno degli esempi secondo me lampanti su come i software open possono contribuire soprattutto alla certezza del risultato perché soprattutto sulla mobile forensics che è un grosso buco nero noi oggi ci dobbiamo affidare ciecamente di quello che ci viene proposto da una soluzione commerciale per due motivi uno software closet quindi non sappiamo come funziona due non ce lo diranno mai perché per fare quelle tipologie di analisi queste software house investono veramente milioni e milioni di euro l'anno e c'è tutto un discorso di segreto industriale non condivisione di come fanno determinate cose che non ci permette di poter approfondire l'effettivo funzionamento di questi tool ecco intervengo proprio su questo punto per chiederti benissimo premesso che io come scrivevo in chat sono uno degli orfani di Deft per cui quando il progetto si è spento mettiamola giù così sono rimasto tra virgolette a piedi ma la domanda che ti faccio è benissimo il progetto open source può avere una maggiore velocità perché?

perché non c'è un overhead corporate dall'altra parte normalmente i progetti open source non hanno le risorse e le hai appena menzionate tu di strutture corporate quindi in un mondo perfetto come potrebbe essere gestita questa cosa? nel senso se io sono un forense e ho bisogno di acquisire l'iphone 45 e essenzialmente l'exploit ce l'ha solamente ce l'hanno solamente i nostri amici israeliani tanto per cambiare ok a questo punto l'open source come si pone? dove può andare e cosa deve fare un forense ma chi fa questo mestiere deve avere un approccio agnostico cioè deve utilizzare sia uno che l'altro ed è purtroppo una realtà dei fatti ora io ho appena fatto la battuta sulla questione israeliana io per scelta professionale dopo tutto quello che sta accadendo ho scelto di non utilizzare se posso software israeliani ma più per una scelta personale ripeto non perché facciano schifo o quant'altro soprattutto quando appunto non c'è un'alternativa liberamente accessibile o open source quindi la valigetta del toolkit di chi fa oggi analisi forense deve essere varia quindi deve assolutamente avere tutto veramente tutto perché oggi è un problema che risolvi magari con uno strumento closed source e commerciale come appunto quelli che si usano per analizzare gli smartphone e a me è capitato in passato quei software lì non funzionano e quindi devi iniziarti magari a fare il carver da solo dei dati per fare il carver da solo dei dati ci sono 800 miliardi di soluzioni liberamente accessibili distribuibili e programmabili soprattutto per fare carving per recuperare quelle tipologie di dati e questo è sicuramente un'ottima notizia perché se il tecnico che deve essere veramente tecnico e non fare la push the button forensics come l'ho sempre chiamata io cioè chi è abituato appunto a fare l'analisi cliccando aspettando il risultato del software in situazioni particolari deve essere autonomo a risolverle risolverle un po' come Velasco Velasco parla sempre del palleggiatore dell'attaccante l'attaccante risolve l'alzata ecco l'attaccante qui è quello che fa l'analisi forensi perché si ritrovi in una situazione e deve risolverla con gli strumenti che ha a disposizione permesso che ti puoi avvalere della facoltà di non rispondere cosa ne pensi di Tsurugi?

senti è un ottimo progetto Giallo assolutamente è uno degli eredi che hanno continuato poi parti del team che era in deft e è andato lì è positivo che esistano questi progetti siamo secondo me però in una fase un po' diversa rispetto a quella del passato dove le distro forensi servono meno ma non perché servono più i tool che hanno il loro interno quindi quello che ci troviamo oggi è avere tantissimi repository GitHub con tanti software veramente molto interessanti in base all'esigenza questo è il limite oggi delle distribuzioni Linux non potranno mai inglobare tutto ed è il motivo perché poi chi fa questo mestiere oggi inizia a farsi le prove workstation e poi man mano va a prendersi i tool quindi dipende sempre da come ho detto prima è uno dei tool kit che devi avere in valigetta assolutamente ok grazie grazie Stefano per queste risposte grazie Gianluca per le tue osservazioni ripeto se avete domande è una buona opportunità per farle anche perché per adesso invece switcho leggermente su due temi diciamo così ti do lo spazio per fare un po' un discorso complessivo sulle due domande cioè mi piacerebbe che da un lato raccontassi la tua esperienza perché molto spesso alcuni dei ragazzi che sono sia stati poi presenti nel corso di Cyber Security and Law e per quello che io non ho presentato Gianluca perché credo che tutti abbiano conosciuto il Dottor Gilardi e quindi ne hanno fatto delle domande tutti qual è il futuro, cosa posso fare, le application è vero che siamo sempre più in un mondo dove diciamo è chiaro che ci sono tante corporation ci sono tante big four come anche scherzando ne parlavamo precedentemente Stefano che possono dare delle opportunità e solitamente le danno a tutti i neolaureati che escono dal Politecnico o sia con l'aura breve sia con la magistrale sia con master eccetera eccetera però ci sono anche tante realtà, tante start up tante persone che appunto si costruiscono il loro futuro a me non è che piaccia tanto il termine start up a me piace parlare di professionisti persone che si costruiscono il proprio futuro con autonomia e indipendenza che non significa che chi magari decide di andare a lavorare da KPMG sta sbagliando tutto anzi sta acquisendo competenze preziosissime che poi potrebbero comunque comportare anche quello stesso percorso però ci sono anche persone che partono invece in maniera completamente autonoma ecco io vorrei che tu raccontassi un pochino la tua esperienza ma soprattutto la calandola già da subito perché sennò diventa troppo autocelebrativo su che cosa quali quali sarebbero i consigli che potresti dare a una persona che si deve affacciare in un mondo che è cross tra la digital forensics e la cyber security perché la cosa interessante è che tu hai fatto tutte e due le cose e molto bene e quindi diciamo dare un pochino dei consigli anche un po' sterzi cioè si partendo dalla tua esperienza ma anche uscendo dalla tua esperienza e medesimandoti sul fatto che non tutti sono e hanno le tue caratteristiche ecco quali sono le cose da fare e da evitare nei due percorsi forensics e digital forensics e cyber security allora io però sono molto talebano su questo nel senso che partirei da un presupposto se la vostra prima esperienza lavorativa secondo me è sbagliatissimo iniziare con la big four ma non perché sono il male assoluto ma semplicemente perché se volete imparare veramente un mestiere quindi sporcarvi le mani in ambito forensics o cyber security se andate a lavorare in una big four siete un pezzo di una grandissima catena che fa cose e quindi verrete catapultati in un mondo verticalizzato e vedrete soltanto delle piccole cose di quel processo di quel grande processo lavorare invece è quello che consiglio io sulle prime esperienze per un'azienda non big four chiamiamola così ha dei pro nell'acquisire conoscenze tecnologiche gigantesche ed è stato in parte involontariamente il mio percorso cioè io ho iniziato come dipendente prima in un'università a Bologna e poi in un consorzio di banche e lì anche se il consorzio diciamo è una media impresa italiana comunque sono stato affiancato a persone che mi hanno insegnato veramente come si lavorava nel networking e nei sistemi operativi e da lì poi l'evoluzione nella cyber sicurezza cosa che nella parte del big four non si fa ma assolutamente no quindi sicuramente il mio primo consiglio è quello che se volete imparare un lavoro indipendentemente dalla tipologia di mestiere lavorare per un'azienda non big four quindi una media piccola impresa sicuramente ha il grandissimo vantaggio che venite catapultati in un mondo dove vedrete tutto ma veramente tutto perché essendoci meno persone siete più coinvolti in più processi e sicuramente imparerete in una maniera molto molto più veloce questo indubbiamente è il più grande pro e vantaggio che si ha da questo punto di vista poi i percorsi cyber e digital forensics sono completamente diversi oggi diciamo che un ibrido è chi fa incident response quindi chi fa risposta agli incidenti informatici il comune denominatore di questi due mestieri è indubbiamente avere delle solide basi informatiche di sistemi operativi e networking perché il più grande errore che vedo è di persone che si buttano su questa tipologia di mercato e poi non mi sanno dire come NEMAP individua se una porta UDP è aperta o chiusa da un punto di vista proprio di pacchetti inviati cioè questo è un grave problema secondo me culturale che oggi non tanto le università colmano non è che sia loro compito ma proprio gli studenti stessi che purtroppo non sono così curiosi come invece magari in passato ci veniva stimolata la curiosità quindi sicuramente è molto importante questo perché soltanto con quelle basi lì potete diventare degli ottimi professionisti perché saprete esattamente come funzionano le cose ed è fondamentale dal punto di vista di digital forensics come andare a trovare gli artefatti, come questi vengono creati, come i metadati vengono modificati e chi più NEMAP ne metta e la push the button forensics che dicevo prima a Gianluca è proprio il risultato di quelle persone pigre che invece non vogliono diciamo così approfondire queste tematiche studiando in maniera personale e vogliono, pretendono di lanciarsi sul mondo del lavoro è quello credetemi ma ripeto non per demonizzare le big four è molto più un approccio al big four perché c'è meno tempo per imparare e soprattutto si vedono meno cose dove poter poi applicare la propria curiosità e la propria conoscenza perché si lavora per un cliente si lavora per determinati task che non si pushi da quel perimetro se no ovviamente perché è proprio così la struttura nel lavorare nelle big four quindi altamente consigliato diciamo un percorso di questo tipo tenendo presente una cosa che se volete fare soltanto digital forensics la maggior parte diciamo non è che avete grosse opportunità lavorative in aziende esistono realtà ancora oggi che fanno questo di mestiere ma la maggior parte dei professionisti che fanno solo soltanto questo sono partite IVA quindi la libera professione su questo non ha grosse alternative come ho detto se non essere assunti in realtà che esistono che fanno solo soltanto quello o magari in parte ecco non andare mai da quelle aziende che dicono facciamo anche digital forensics perché vuol dire che non la fanno vuol dire che la fanno esattamente proprio in maniera sporadica e recentemente mi è capitato di averne una di queste davanti in un contesto di causa civile una causa sul lavoro e il risultato è che proprio perché le fanno una volta ogni tanto hanno fatto dei casini fotonici perdendo la causa tra l'altro ovviamente arrivando addirittura a scambiare log di una tecnologia per log di un'altra ecco quando arrivi a fare questo vuol dire che non hai capito nemmeno quello che stai analizzando e torniamo al punto di prima cioè non hai le conoscenze per fare queste tipologie di analisi ecco domanda focalizzandoci un'istante sulla parte cybersec invece che forensic premesso che in un mondo perfetto tutti gli esperti cybersec sarebbero purple team per qualcuno che deve partire al minuto zero e ancora in un'ottica di siamo molto schietti appetito del mercato se uno deve concentrarsi invece su red o blu tu secondo te oggi e in un futuro relativamente breve lo so che non è la sfera di cristallo oggi se dovessi partire dove andresti?

in realtà già non ce l'ho la sfera di cristallo perché sto studiando l'argomento che mi è appena proposto non da un punto di vista tecnologico ma da un punto di vista filosofico nel senso che fine faranno questi lavori ecco io prevedo che veramente in pochissimi anni e secondo me sono troppo largo si potrebbe anche restringere il concetto di red team come lo conosciamo oggi scomparirà del tutto questo perché abbiamo letto e straletto le tecnologie AI oggi cosa possono fare se una piccola realtà italiana è riuscita a creare un junior pen tester che riesce a fare anche dei piccoli buffer overflow in autonomia e ripeto istruendolo da soli quindi non utilizzando Anthropic, OpenAI e quant'altro ha creato un modello interno ed è una piccola realtà vuol dire che siamo molto vicini alla fine di questo lavoro ma bisogna dirle le cose come stanno quindi proprio infatti quando qualche studente mi chiede ah io volevo fare il penetration test io dico ma lascia stare ma probabilmente lascia stare perché sì lavorerai sicuramente ma la tendenza sarà che queste figure saranno sempre meno pagate se la loro seniority è medio-bassa e tantissimo pagate se la loro seniority sarà alta c'è un piccolo problema che per avere la seniority alta devi lavorare e se non ti danno la possibilità di iniziare a lavorare non diventerai mai un senior e quindi ci ritroviamo veramente in uno stalo alla messicana su questa tipologia libera di professione dove chi vuole fare red team ha un'alternativa o si muove diventa un senior della madonna in brevissimo tempo o non avrà un mestiere cioè non può non farà quel mestiere lì sulla parte di fence invece per adesso la vedo ancora quindi blu la vedo ancora propositiva nel senso che gli sforzi oggi si sono concentrati molto più sulla parte offensive esistono anche gli esempi agentici di operation automatizzate ma è per fortuna ancora oggi la testa per capire come un attaccante si è mosso e quindi l'intelligenza che può avere un essere umano nell'espletare un'attività di IR non è ancora stata replicata e non ci sono ancora effettivi margini diciamo così di comparazione solo invece i livelli che si sono raggiunti sulla parte red quindi indubbiamente ti direi che se vuoi fare questo mestiere oggi è meglio che vai sulla parte blu o come tu dici prima Gianluca il purple is the new red is the new black mettiamolo così però mi riaggancio un attimo anche sulla base di un video che ho visto stanotte lasciamo perdere allora bene blu ma secondo me e smentisci mi e sarei felice di essere smentito blu ma nel senso ancora una volta di IRT di incident response non di analisi proattiva e di difesa preventiva perché in questo video si parlava di mitos per quanto correr possa si diceva che non è quello che Antropic ci sta raccontando dal punto di vista blu però qualcosa potrebbe fare mentre l'analisi in IRT effettivamente non vedo non vedo neanch'io molto almeno pubblicizzato poi dietro porte chiuse lo sanno solo loro però anche qui secondo me anche andando in blu forse vale la pena concentrarsi nel subset di blu che è IRT ma quindi presente che oggi chi fa blu tendenzialmente è un sistemista perché alla fine vi vengono chieste di installare tecnologie in difesa delle infrastrutture e quindi lì che è un mestiere onestissimo lì vi si chiede di imparare a conoscere determinate tecnologie di determinati vendor è un mestiere sempre verde nel senso che sarà sempre richiesto poi il system engineer di security per intendersi che oggi vede questa evoluzione non fa soltanto il deploy della tecnologia non fa l'architettura il deploy ma segue anche in base alle esperienze che ha vissuto tutta la parte di mantenimento e soprattutto un corretto funzionamento di queste tecnologie che anche loro in questo momento storico stanno iniziando ad avere un po' di crisi mistiche se possiamo definirle così perché a parte che c'è un'offerta di mercato dove uno dovrebbe passare le sue settimane soltanto a provare prodotti per comprenderle veramente l'altra mi metto nei panni degli stessi consulenti o comunque persone che vogliono fare questo mestiere devono veramente iniziare a fare delle scelte poi perché non è detto che se tu impari a usare la tecnologia del prodotto A sai usare anche la tecnologia del prodotto B ma non perché le interfacce grafiche sono diverse perché ottengono sia lo stesso risultato ma in un modo diverso adesso o comunque con configurazioni e parametri che nella tua testa funzionano in un modo ma nella testa loro funzionano in un altro e questo è così nella networking, security, nelle DR io mai mi dimenticherò quando ho scoperto che il defender di Microsoft per parlare di tecnologie DR in realtà è completamente diverso rispetto agli altri DR per un semplice motivo ha una verbosità di log talmente elevata che se un Data Protection Officer ci andasse veramente a guardare dentro vieterebbe l'utilizzo di quella tecnologia in tutte le aziende peccato che è il prodotto più installato in Europa e questo fa capire quanto sono diversi questi prodotti nel bene o nel male e da qui anche quanto la persona deve fare a un certo punto un atto di fede io mi specializzo su queste tecnologie se voglio fare blu dal punto di vista di difesa dei sistemi se invece voglio farlo dal punto di vista DRT che, attenzione, profili richiesti ma non quanto gli altri cioè stiamo parlando di un rapporto 90-10 diciamo veramente così bel mestiere ma anche lì dovete farlo con realtà piccole che ve lo spieghino che vi facciano toccare con mano gli incidenti perché si impara soltanto se si gestiscono gli incidenti e questo alza la palla a una domanda che hanno fatto in chat dal suo punto di vista iniziare la carriera in enti governativi o internazionali come l'esercito, l'ACN o ENISA è comparabile in termini di crescita professionale e opportunità a iniziare realtà private come le big four o aziende di medie dimensioni?

no, nel senso che anche lì se parliamo di ACN dobbiamo considerarla come una big four è lo stesso contesto hanno tanto budget, assumono tante persone mettono quelle persone nel fare determinate cose in maniera verticalizzata su un determinato argomento quindi se è la vostra prima esperienza lavorativa lasciate stare quei mondi soprattutto perché è raro che imparerete cose nuove con la stessa velocità con cui si imparano invece nelle aziende private il bello di lavorare in aziende private indipendentemente che sia big four e quant'altro è che bisogna rimanere aggiornati sottolineo bisogna perché questo è un mestiere infinito non si finisce mai di imparare cose nuove alla nostra età, alla vostra età ed è anche la maledizione di questo mestiere cioè è un mestiere dove non si è mai arrivati ed è anche a 60 anni, tra 20 anni non saremo mai arrivati ancora ed è un loop continuo quel loop nelle pubbliche amministrazioni non si sa come riescono a interromperlo cioè si ferma il tempo in alcuni contesti e quindi io sconsiglio iniziare a lavorare verso quei mondi lì e ribadisco l'importanza di lavorare invece nel privato perché personalmente per esempio che ho fatto i due anni in università dove pensavo di aver imparato qualcosa nei primi quattro mesi mi hanno preso a sberle quando sono andato a lavorare nelle aziende private sberle metaforicamente parlando ovviamente perché sei convinto di sapere come gira il mondo invece poi scopri che il mondo gira da tutt'altra parte e tutt'altra velocità ecco aggiungo una piccola nota di colore delle ultime 24 ore proprio parlando di ACN abbiamo un cliente che è nel perimetro nazionale di sicurezza cibernetica che ha subito un incident pre-notificato le famigerate 24 ore della NIS2 ad ACN ACN ha mandato una nota di chiarimenti da cui si inferiva che non avevano capito niente dell'incidente descritto ma proprio niente eh ma proprio niente di niente di niente Giuseppe e faccio disclosure quando ne discutiamo diciamo ma secondo me questa risposta l'hanno fatta fare un'intelligenza artificiale tanto uno diceva ma questi veramente non hanno capito un tubo quindi quando mi parlate di ACN sono perplesso dopo le ultime esperienze dell'ultima giornata sono molto perplesso l'esercito non ha esperienze dirette eh però Stefano correggimi se sbaglio può fare decentemente curriculum scrivere di aver avuto un'esperienza in quell'ambito magari può servire perché si è ottenuti una clearance di un certo tipo su certe informazioni forse dipende dal livello ovviamente Enisa eh io lo vedo come molto accademico e poco enzona accademico sì assolutamente per cui quando mi parlate di Enisa vi dico bellissimo eh cioè io sono uno di quelli che arriate a un certo punto della sua vita ci ha provato a entrare in Enisa però avevo già più di 45 anni quindi eh bello magari più avanti eh lo chiudo con una sola considerazione eh io recentemente ho avuto la possibilità di avere in mano uno degli smartphone eh oggetto di degli attacchi a parte i graphite e che si smarzano poi sono finiti in procura come sapete e per rispondere proprio alla domanda di Salvatore e quello che le forze dell'ordine hanno deciso di fare non è stata l'attività che abbiamo fatto io e anche altri cioè studiare da zero che cos'è perché non c'è una documentazione una non è un software open source quindi bisogna farsi un mazzo fotonico passare mesi a studiare quelle acquisizioni lì quei dati quei log e quant'altro eh il loro approccio a livello di mh indagine è stato ah io mi baserò sull'indicatore di compromissione pubblicati eh un anno e mezzo fa quindi totalmente inutili eh da eh e basta trovo quei marcatori o per me l'analisi è finita questo vi fa capire secondo me con un esempio molto pratico eh chi fa il compitino e chi invece eh deve poi studiare impegnarsi e soprattutto risolvere un problema come vi ho accennato prima problema che eh potete risolverlo solo con un determinato tipo di seniority o con un team di persone che hanno un determinato tipo di seniority perché i supereroi esistono nei film della Marvel nei fumetti nella vita reale non tanto poi parla quello con la sedia di Batman ma lasciamo stare scusatemi l'interruzione grazie grazie innanzitutto Stefano abbiamo eh delle degli ultimi due elaborati che se vuoi rimanere ti diverti anche così metterai un po' in difficoltà gli ultimi studenti eh perché abbiamo fatto un laboratorio dove abbiamo simulato eh questa azienda eh che deve difendersi dal fatto che è un'azienda che produce malware e deve difendersi dai dai noti reati sulla eh eh sui creati del 1993 quindi eh puoi capire come sono validi e semplici da applicare però è un tema che secondo me per chi farà forensics e soprattutto cyber security sempre di più il tema del contrasto tra la legislazione che impedisce di fatto certe attività che non sono purtroppo correttamente regolamentate ehm e però sempre di più adesso c'è la necessità anche di produrre eh per finalità diciamo assolutamente nobili malware quindi se no se devi scappare ti lasciamo gli ultimi 15 minuti però purtroppo poi la lezione finisce alle 11.30 gli studenti devono andare da un'altra parte gra grazie stra grazie del tempo che ci hai dedicato del link che ci hai dato ehm vabbè io volevo dire anche qualcosa su sulle sulle big four proprio un beat però senza aprire un dibattito eh cioè io non è io io alle volte invece mi sono permesso di consigliare la big four all'inizio perché è vero che tu vedi un pezzettino del percorso quindi grazie di aver dato questo questo punto che è molto importante catena di montaggio e vedi soltanto un pezzettino però è altrettanto vero che vedi una realtà e vedi un'organizzazione che ti dà un mindset ti dà un approccio che secondo me se sei bravo poi tu a staccarti da quella cosa lì io ho visto tanta gente che ha fatto un'esperienza nel big four e poi ha dato valore aggiunto però eh dall'altro lato rimani sempre l'osservazione di Stefano altrettanto corretta del fatto di vedere soltanto un pezzo come al solito non c'è mai una ragione io eh ci sono tante ragioni ci sono tanti punti di vista e e e voi dovete raccogliere poi i nostri consigli e fare poi il tesoro di di quello che sono le vostre esperienze però volevo solo dare questo beat perché per onestà intellettuale io in alcuni casi ad alcuni studenti eh non in modo pubblico che me l'hanno chiesto ho detto questa cosa però ripeto a quelli a cui l'ho detto ricordatevi che quello che ha detto Stefano è giusto cioè guardate anche questo lato della medaglia Stefano Falco ci dice dopo quanto ho detto per eh eh eh eh vai proprio rispondi in due secondi a questa di Stefano e poi andiamo perché se no non abbiamo tempo sì un attimo che leggo allora non ho detto che non accadrà sulla parte digital forensics accadrà eh c'è meno interesse e quindi la velocità in cui oggi ci si sta diciamo eh mettendo il focus è direttamente proporzionale a quanti soldi girano su quel mercato e nel mercato dell'offensive security girano miliardi di dollari ma miliardi e miliardi di dollari quindi il foe ed il problema delle vulnerabilità è il problema che hanno tutti quanti quindi il motivo è principalmente un motivo di mercato mentre l'indagine è un shit defense quindi devo fare quella cosa eh quando capita il problema della vulnerabilità non è quando capita perché sappiamo che capita e quindi è semplicemente uno spostamento del è un dedicarsi del focus e risorse e tempo su un determinato argomento ma arriverà assolutamente anche sulla parte di digital forensics ma qui la vedo molto più lenta tutto qui grazie Stefano grazie del tuo tempo un proseguimento allora grazie a te ciao ciao ciao allora noi andiamo avanti con le casi ce ne rimanevano due tre ce ne rimangono quindi abbiamo cinque minuti a testa partiamo con allora no in realtà forse ce ne sono solo due perché adesso io sto aprendo il codice etico di RSIAS che non so che cosa da dove salta fuori e invece c'ho Deborah Abini Edoardo Brignone Cari Giacomo Pettinato Simone Todd codice etico di RCS è un allegato a un altro documento che faceva riferimento alla 231 quello che abbiamo discusso prima infatti però lo vedevo come file quindi il file si chiama cfcca prego Deborah buongiorno posso iniziare?

yes yes but in english no non è questo file si chiama cfcca sorry arriva ok ok so with this presentation we want to demonstrate that the company we are defending has not violated any regulation on the country it has built a system to ensure compliance at every level legal technical and contractual authorization in fact the company in question was charged with violating articles 615 ter and 615 quarter of the Italian criminal code according to this article the company is accused of developing possessing and distributing malware without proper authorization however every single activity of the company occurred with explicit documented and contractual authorization therefore there is no evidence of unauthorized access or unlawful distribution on a practical level technical and contractual measures have been implemented specifically to ensure compliance to ensure the product's legitimate use and integrity protection extends across three levels physical organizational and cryptographical specifically the company adopts a near-gap network and network level isolation prevents unauthorized external access and reduces operational risk access to the company and its infrastructure is strictly limited to a small number of persons and they authorized they authorized to do that and access is managed through a control system no code can be transferred outside of the company without without a formal internal authorization that is tracked and documented we have found a similarity with hardware security that is a split manufacturing into production no single foundry knows the final product each production layer is managed by a company and the final one handles the assembly of the final product and we apply the same principle here that is used at software level primarily in military environments and each team develops an isolated model of the malware and each team signs a non-disclosure agreement NDA that defines the scope and prohibits sharing product information with members of other teams or with third-party companies the team is responsible for the final assembly only and it knows only the interfaces but not the internal code produced by Research Foundry so even in the unlikely event of a leak a single team's output cannot produce a functionality tool a functioning tool obfuscation techniques are also used these are not offensive tools but they are used to protect intellectual property prevent malware replication and prevent reverse engineering from unauthorized third parties among the techniques the most relevant ones are watermarking that allows the origin of each copy to be identified in the event of a leak of course hardware related licenses which bind each license to a specific customer and a specific machine and code signing the binary is digitally signed and any modification applied invalidates its signature Contractually the companies sell exclusively to government agencies law enforcement agencies and certified companies customers must demonstrate ownership of the target infrastructure or provide explicit written authorization to conduct testing adhering to the legislative decree number 216 which regulates the use of trial for criminal investigations for more before any business relationship KYC Know Your Customer protocol verifies the customer's identity and qualification finally each contract provides for immediate termination of the business relations in the event of an unauthorized scope the company also commits to actively cooperate with the authorities in the event of investigation into any potential measure and as an additional safeguard the tool used internally generates tanto-resistant locks this allows for a stringent monitoring of each member section and that's all any comment Gianluca just one you start talking about yourself as a malware developer that's a pretty uphill battle if you are defending your own business you should at least try to say well I'm developing cyber security tools or not even surveillance tool but cyber security tools you're talking I was just seeing this slide well I'm having a parallel between malware production which is what we are talking about and hardware security you know you should stress the fact that you are not developing malware or you're not using or you're not possessing malware but you are possessing developing selling licensing whatever legitimate cyber security tools that's the first thing I would say other points are we already mentioned to a certain extent and again when you say all activities were conducted under prior authorization it's not clear what you mean by that because you are talking about developing the software you are talking about licensing the software using the software that's a bit too broad in order to understand your line of defense okay thanks okay never I appreciate the the work that you did the the format also that was different because sometimes other format award for example Falco format was quite impressive but also not as I said that is a ballot point and the presentation was a good format so I I appreciate your work in general but also the format it was also a good point so compliments to your team and to you and then we pass to the last but give me please interrupt me if you if I forget someone of you so for me the last one is Stefano Falco yes okay yeah um no no I don't think that you are able to do I will do for you because also Gianluca does not have the the final version in English you have the the version in Italian yeah I'm so sorry about it no problem okay Stefano okay you can start okay in in my case study uh I brought a company the Stefa Malware Research which is an Italian company specialized in uh well malware analysis cyber threat intelligence but most of all authorized red team operations and in fact um this legal procedure is about uh a red team operation um um with um a client which is um the North Bank SPA which is a banking group that hired this company to perform uh a controlled red team activity and uh well in particular uh the critical factor it's resumed in in the first table uh is that a red teamer inside the company um um affected an out of scope asset uh using a demonstrative payload uh which is a non-disruptive payload but with the malware-like behavior uh that is uh accused to um to have caused a temporary denial of service effect um i want just to underline that in my presentation there's just the line of defense so there is uh no um work or um report for um for a forensic point of view that can prove uh that the denial of service effect uh um has occurred due to um to this red team activity so it should be proven and it's part of the defense um to point out that the denial of service effect may not be uh uh um came from this uh this activity um um um okay so uh the baseline for this defense are um the possible individual conduct of the of the employee um the also an ambiguous message which will be presented uh uh later uh received from a delivery message of the client that seems to allow some out of scope activities but not in uh in a previously regulated way and of course the position of a company which has also um internal britain procedures against any extra scope activity activity um so in february uh 2026 uh north bank assigned to the stefa malware research a project named several um also um they agreed upon they agreed upon on a statement of work which authorized only some controlled specific activities on uh specific assets um um which are uh um summarized in the point two uh among others there are the staging environment uh indicated by the clients uh um the staging web application uh uh the vpn tenant uh a simulated phishing campaign but only on selected users and of course there was an agreement uh upon the uh the tools and the demonstrative payloads which uh can be used for example with a clear uh kill switch and of course for a limited use um on the other hand uh there were also uh excluded assets like the production system of course uh payment systems and disaster recovery assets um uh according to the prosecution uh with a red teamer in my example well it's a single person which is the head of the red team um reached uh an out of scope asset which uh was uh um well held by a third party which is find out outsourcing which is was a partner of uh of north bank uh and of course it has been alerted of uh of this operation as well as the bank um uh because uh um this red team operation have used um expired service credentials and uh uh well performed as i was saying uh a demonstrative payload um uh in order to access to these assets and provide uh an inventory but with a malware like behavior due to its forcing nature and causing a temporary denial of service effect um thank you triggering of course the security alerts for both uh north bank and this third party company uh fin data um well i will go to the end also there is this little um problematic uh i would put some uh considerations additional consideration other than the the the red team operation which is uh this message sent by the delivery manager of of the client that as i was saying uh seems to uh allow some out of scope actions on also on fin data assets and therefore the hypothetical charges uh are uh well um against the article 615 of the italian crime code so unauthorized access to the assets as i was saying also author uh so the use of credentials and tools suitable for accessing a protected protected system um and of course um use of or possession of a program comparable to malware capable of altering but in this case uh just interrupting the system um which is uh also article uh 635 uh author and also uh among the accusation the possible corporate liability for for cyber crimes committed uh in the company's uh interest or advantage um well so the main points for the defense are the statement of work that specifically excluded uh the the task set uh but also the rules of engagement which of course were um followed exactly as previously agreed uh also the company had a written procedure to modify the scope but um the the employees uh affecting autoscope assets um should have stopped and request immediately uh a written approval and this is is not the case uh and also um the the payloads used were were of course authorized effect must be uh technically verified um okay so these are are the main points uh also uh since um since uh the company had provided that clearly provided extra scope activity um any change to the the perimeter should should have required written approval and this again is not the case the payload was demonstrative and non-disruptive also the dose effect requires a technical assessment of causation and the company reacted transparently and uh cooperatively with uh with the authorities as soon as soon as the incident emerge in this simulated case uh the malware research company interrupted the project preserved every logs chart payload ashes also of the image of the testing machines uh has informed the client um and also started an internal audit and cooperated with the authorities so this should be enough to demonstrate the absence of demands rare and in general that um the final argument uh is that the red team activity of course does not mean that everything is allowed uh but since this activity is uh pretty risky uh malware research had uh some strict rules and if uh those rules were violated by individuals this fact alone uh is not enough to turn the company into an entity that promotes unauthorized access uh damaging malware or et damage uh with uh uh monetary uh advantage or well clear yeah stefano it's a little bit late so like thanks a lot for your presentation uh again there is anybody that has not presented this work please it's the time to tell us Gianluca and then final consideration and then we will announce who who has won uh as far as this last uh work is concerned I found a little inconsistent as far as the arguments relating to 615 quarter are in a certain point in paragraph eight you are discussing the fact that uh there is no evidence that there was a misuse of this kind of tools but your conclusions at the end of the document you are talking about talking about the the legitimacy of the ownership and the possession of this kind of tools so it's not clear what you are defending against are you defending against the fact that you have not used these tools in an unlawful way so the abusive use of tools or are you defending against the fact that someone is challenging the fact that you have these kind of tools which can be used in a dual use scenario this is kind of confusing for anyone looking at your own defense and if you are on the they have not been used in an unlawful way well you are forgetting to defend yourself against the claim that you should not have you shouldn't have these tools in the first place that's it that's it okay well it's just I was about to respond just that yes the point is the use in an unlawful way of the tools not just the the possession of these tools but since I was just trying to show that the company wants of course to prevent any any any legal legal issue but well it has to be demonstrated that the action performed was unlawful since there is some messages and there could be some defenses for the the specific person involved in the in the team operation in case the the the the company will just move the apart from from from the the individual the red teamer and with all the accusations will be on his charge fair enough okay sorry we just because a lot of student has to go so please Gianluca as you did a great work of review I will leave the floor to you to announce who for you is the best work starting from the assumption that I appreciate all the works before before telling this I would like to tell you that the next lesson will be on Friday will be held by Professor Azzeni this is a certainty not a doubt I will do the lesson of Tuesday next not not this Tuesday but the next Tuesday 26 of May so just to inform you now and I also send you a message immediately so you will have this information the lesson on next Tuesday will be in presence I don't want to do two lessons remotely that's why I asked Professor Azzeni to do this change because he wasn't he wasn't able to do this lesson on 15 but he will do the lesson of 22 of May this is an information that is important please Gianluca so from my perspective who has inverted commas one this is the work I was most impressed about I was chatting with Giuseppe in our chat before I guess for a very specific reason this would not be part with someone which a law student might have produced I would say that this kind of argument I'm searching it and I'll let you know what has really impressed me is sorry change this is the argument the fact that you are trying to say that well what we are doing is is legal is not abusive because if it were there would be a mention of it or there would not be even a EU regulation saying these kind of tools are legal they are so legal that we might even allow to export them to some other countries outside the EU provided a certain number of reasons and authorizations and so forth this is called in legal terms this is called in legal terms sorry switching for the Italian version the Italian version this is absolutely definitely impressive trying to find an argument outside the scope of the rules you are tackling and saying well I can't be held liable for breach of a rule if there is a rule which allows me on the other hand in other circumstances to do something is definitely impressive for me and this is the reason I chose this for this reason only because from apart from the this all the works were very very good they had flaws I am honest with you but they were very very good this argument is definitely a silver bullet for me and from my perspective this has the merit to award the win here I would say we run why I won the works through an AI, I asked an AI to rank your works, and the AI did not agree with me.

So there is hope for humans after all, because there are some kind of reasonings that the AIs are not at present. Or perhaps you made a mistake and the AI is right. Might be, might be. So, well, if you want, we can share with you at a later stage what the AI said about your works, and that's pretty much it. Yeah. Yes. If you are interested, you can write me personally. I will send your evaluation, your single evaluation made by AI and validated by us. We will do on the next Tuesday 26th, the last homework, and then we will do the last laboratory. So you had the other two opportunities to have a point more, and then we will start to make the sum up of all the questions for the exam, because we have to finish the course. And then you have to know exactly what will happen during the exam from my part.

So thanks a lot for your time. And sorry for the delay. But it was for you, basically, because I want to give you the opportunity for you to present the case. Thanks a lot. And see you on May 26th. And thanks a lot again to Gianluca for your help. Thanks to you for having me. Ciao. Bye. Bye. Thank you. Bye. Bye. Bye.
