Okay, we can start on the end for today. Question from the previous discussion. Don't worry, I'm just wondering if you have something to share. I'm not ironic here. If you have something to share with the rest of the class, any arguments regarding forensics or just your... Okay, sorry for the interruption. Okay, well, any questions about what we are addressing, what we addressed in the last lessons?

Okay, I encourage you to contact me regarding the homework to set up the date. We are now approaching, well, considering we will have two more labs, we will not have so many theoretical lessons here. So I think now it's safe to understand when you can do your presentation for who is doing a homework, of course. Okay, so now I think it's better to set up that pretty soon in order to properly schedule all the remaining, which are the vast majority of them in the remaining theoretical lesson, let's say.

Okay, thank you. I remember also that the homework in deep analysis, findings, remarks will be part of the written exam, not as the central part of this course, but will contribute to questions for the written part of the exam. So I encourage to, from one side, to carefully shape presentation and reports, and for the other part of the class to read and to, well, study, well, study somehow, the part that the reports also, and the presentation as well.

Yes, please, a question here. How do you tell me this question? Well, I will show you when we will approach the end, but basically, you will have a number of closed questions, multiple choice meaning, that may address all the programs or everything we have discussed here in class. And this is true, both for my part and from the part of Professor Baciago, and an open question, which is pretty extended, in which the point is to allow you to discuss and to confront and to, well, critically organize concepts around one specific topic that will be the topic of that question, that may vary, of course, from session to session, and that's it.

Most part of the written exam, which will be 90 minutes, will be to go to these two open questions, one from my side and one from Professor Baciago. Well, the rest are multiple choice, that I, in my opinion, will be answered pretty quickly, that are kind of marks. Well, they devote for a number of points, basically, will be, well, we had to discuss a little bit with Professor Baciago, but basically, two points, each closed question. And, well, the purpose there is to study, we examine that, in order to pursue a little the study of all the arguments, but they are not very complex questions, if you studied everything we had in class.

Is it pretty clear? Okay. Okay. And this will, this, the written exam by itself, is enough to reach an evaluation of 30 points, by itself. To the, to the evaluation of that, we will sum up the bonus point we, you will, you will have, you may collect, during the course, during the course, for the lab, for the homeworks, etc. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. And, well, in particular, for closed questions, likely, well, the contribution of homeworks may be, may be both to closed questions, for example, some of the options given might be related to, to the homeworks.

Or, to the open question, where, around the central concept, maybe, there is some insight, some nice elaboration that you can do, knowing the, the homework context. Okay. Okay. This is everything for the moment. And, well, instead about the, the theoretical part that we were discussing yesterday, we went, go, we went through the anti-forensics, specifically for natural forensics. We've seen different possibilities, we try to highlight the, the principles that are around natural forensics.

In some cases, they are not very complex ones, like apply cryptography, encryption to, to vast part of the packet. In some cases are very sophisticated, like the, the adoption of polymorphic, which is malware capable to change the encryption at any time. Or even metamorphic malware, which is malware capable to rewrite itself at any iteration that makes it very, very hard or almost impossible to, to apply a signature-based detection or, in general, analysis to, to what a malware, um, to identify traces, uh, of the malware itself.

So those requires, uh, kind of, uh, more sophisticated analysis as well, like, uh, um, trying to correlate, uh, the, the, the behavior, the traces of the behavior that the malware, that the metamorphic malware may have left on, uh, on the system. And this is, uh, uh, uh, and this is a very sophisticated, um, uh, case for both, intrusion detection, but also for, uh, forensic investigation. And, well, we've seen some mitigation to anti-forensics that, as usual, may be seen from multiple perspectives from a forensic investigator.

This is relevant in order to understand what is the posture, the context, the setup of a system that we are going to investigate. There is the possibility of the packet inspection or not. For example, if almost all the traffic we are relating to is encrypted, there is no possibility to analyze the very content, the very payload of the packet. And this is something that, from the beginning, from the identification of sources, should be understood from a forensic investigator in order to draw correctly the lines of the investigation, instead of trying a kind of blind, brute force attempt to any possible way, which is, by the way, not really feasible given constraints of time and resources in modern investigation.

So, a proper identification of the context and then of the sources of evidences is a key operation that needs to be performed from the beginning in real cases. And, well, in order, one of the points was threat intelligence integration, meaning that in a network-related forensic investigation, among the other important point, is strictly needed to understand what's going on at a broader international, maybe, level, in order to understand what are the campaigns, what are the malware, what is the behaviors that the recurring malware and infections are exhibiting at the moment, what are the origins of an infection, as much as possible, is to know this kind of information during an investigation.

And this can be done thanks to the growing and always more integrated way of sharing threat intelligence among different legitimate actors around the world. And this allows us to understand what is the current behavior, what is the correlation between a new candidate, new type of malware and previous similar behavior in order to identify who can be a possible act or what kind of target may have. And this is exactly what is the current behavior, and this is exactly what is done by sharing and creating effective threat intelligence infrastructure among different cooperating actors.

By the way, this might also be helpful in coping with different jurisdictions around the globe, because this kind of agreement often involves the exchange of data, as well as the guidelines and possibility to interact in a legitimate way between different jurisdictions. and since the malware actors, the malware actors, the attackers, the APTs around the world does not have any boundary to respect, this is strictly required, in my opinion, for the funder of the legitimate side, nowadays.

And this can be done, well, establishing properly and how to exchange significant indicators of compromise, meaning ashes of strategies when applicable, as I said. So, for example, for example, metamorphic malware is almost impossible to identify by hashing something. But in any case, you may use the ash on the opposite side, meaning I may have ashes of legitimate applications, legitimate configurations, and see a different ash that might be an indicator of compromise, something that imposes an unexpected change in an application. And this can be a big red flag to identify an infection, for example.

So, the use of hashing mechanism still is a very important point, even in case where the malware, the attacker may be capable to fool it. And, of course, the classic way of infection, like modification of specific point in a configuration is important as well. What might be a typical impact on a system, like what kind of file or directories, a component, an attacker might try to modify, is another way to identify a possible comparison in a device.

And, of course, since during a campaign, it's pretty common defining fresh and short-lived domains or ULS monitoring death, as well as the history of this kind of freshly defined domains, might be another indicator of compromise that sharing the information at a worldwide level might greatly help in the identification process. And, well, this is basically just what I said with some details in the case of the malware itself, where the identification of what is the activity, if it is active at all, a specific kind of malware or malware family, might be an indicator of the identification of a more wide campaign, a more wide strategy from an APT group, for example.

And this is exactly what the main international parties try to monitor in order to react very quickly in case of an attack. And, in case of agreement, this allows for exchange of information and then may make a lot easier an investigation. If you will have to work in an organization that will be important enough, will have enough contacts to read, to access to this kind of information. This is to conclude my network forensics overview.

Well, not exactly to conclude because now I want to have questions about that as usual. If you have any, welcome. If not, I'd like to have, as I promised you yesterday, some focus on a specific anti-forensics from one side of privacy-preserving technology, which is tall. Just a very brief overview. Did you see TOR in any other course? No. Yes. Some of you, yes. Some of you, no. Okay. I'll try to have a medium level discussion in order to not bore too much who already said that.

Well, as a kind of overall, God bless you, definition, TOR is a pretty open source, which is a very relevant point. Kind of anonymity infrastructure that works at worldwide level, meaning that part of the TOR infrastructure, of the TOR network, are spread around many, many different countries. The point, well, who operate this kind of nodes, basically, volunteer, that, yeah, I'm introducing that in light of anti-natural forensics, but the main point of anti-natural forensics, the main point of the TOR network is a very legitimate one, which is to preserve the anonymity, the privacy of users to avoid the kind of, how to say, bad consequences after expression of free will and free speech, let's say.

And so the main principle of a TOR network is a very ethical and legitimate one, to preserve privacy in, maybe in a regime that would put you in jail just for the expression of your thoughts and of your beliefs. Of course, this is a kind of technology, and since it provides, by definition, anonymity, this of course can be used for not legitimate behavior. As I mentioned in this set of slides, a case of a pedo-pornography that used the TOR network in order to avoid, to conceal, to hide, the exchange of non-leaf legal material.

And, well, I'm afraid this is a pretty common usage of a TOR network, but we need to understand that the origin and the principle of TOR are absolutely not bad by itself. some design characteristics in order to understand what we are talking about. Oh, well, TOR networks are, the TOR network is based on the Onion Routing Principle, which is a pretty old now concept, which is based on an even old anonymity concept that are the mixed, so-called mixed mixed architecture from a brilliant researcher from a brilliant researcher of last century, the TOR, David TOR, and the mixed approach is basically have a network in which you send a message from a send send a message from a sender and a receiver.

This message will go through different nodes, not depending on who is the, where is the final destination, which is a kind of optimization of the performance, if I choose the best route to a destination, but instead randomly go through the network into the network. In order to conceal the traces and on any hope, and you may have many hopes, many not very relevant hopes that in the light of the optimization of the route that your message will go through, just in order to in order to delete your network, the traces of your path.

How this might work? Because each node, each mixed node, will adopt a new encryption, a new cryptography, unrelated with the previous one, and so since each node is a kind of concentrator of multiple messages, you will you will lose any possibility to trace the flow of a message given the overall number of messages from one origin to one destination. This is also because each node in the original mix infrastructure may add a random, but maybe significant delay before sending, before forwarding the message to another node. As you may see, from a performance perspective, this is a kind of overkill, because it will delay messages undefinedly, which is not something normally a user is very likely to, is very willing to achieve.

This kind of infrastructure is very, very resistant from any realistic attack by some of very significant performance degradation. And so in practice is almost unfeasible. The Tone Network is a kind of pragmatic approach to those concepts that make the possibility viable. We are introducing multiple layers of encryption, and do not introducing the delay in different nodes. Multiple layers of encryption, yes. not very much modification of the flow in order to make traffic analysis unfeasible.

This is to achieve a kind of, what I called here, low legacy design that improve performance in respect of older and more robust but less performing solutions, still achieving a significant grade of anonymity. This is in addition to the concept of onion ruling. What is the meaning of onion ruling? This means that, from the beginning, the client that is willing to send messages anonymously to a destination will put different layers of encryption, like an onion, that can be killed off during the transit inside the tour network.

We will see more clearly that. This means that any node will not, apart the last one just before the destination, will not be able to see inside the tour network, will not be able to see the very content of the anonymous message. Thus, the tour network is resistant also to the presence of malicious nodes inside the tour network itself. We will discuss a little more about this kind of mechanisms and the general characteristics. other data. Globally, the tour network is comprised around 7,000 of different nodes that are pretty much enough in order to achieve a kind of worldwide anonymity in absence of attack or strong adversity.

Yes, please. Yes, correct. So, they need to start to establish an increase and increase the value for the market, and how the destination can be integrated? The destination can be integrated? The destination? Well, the tour mechanism is related to what flows inside the network. So, you can, for example, have an encrypted hand-to-hand encryption. And this is unrelated to the encryption inside the tour network. Okay? So, this is the packet, the message. The tour is not the duty of tour change, that your relationship between the client and the final destination.

So, inside the tour network, basically, I will spend some more words later, but basically, the concept is you establish a route, you as a client, you as a sender, establish a route by the tour network. By the tour network, for example, you will say, okay, I need to go through a node tour 1, node tour 5, node tour 10. And since you have this circuit established, you negotiate with, as a client, as a sender, with TOR 1, one key, an AS key, typically, with TOR 5, a key, again, an AS key, and with TOR 10, another key. Then, you will put on the same message, that might be encrypted hand-to-hand, doesn't matter this, with whatever is your message, you will encrypt with before key 3, then key 2, then key 1, your packet, and then you will send it through the TOR circuit, then the first node that we hypothesized, TOR 1, will fill the first layer using the key 1 that you established with that, the same TOR 5, the same TOR 10.

So, at the end node, the original message will be available and can reach the destination that will know nothing about the work of the TOR network itself. You establish that when you try to connect to the TOR, to the TOR network. And this is stable for, well, a consistent amount of time, both for performance, but also to avoid some kind of traffic flow, traffic analysis, that if you randomly change the route inside the TOR network, it might be easier. But, yeah, basically that's what might be interesting, is just that the route is stable for some time.

Okay? Okay. Okay. Okay. About, well, the trust between the networks, the nodes inside the network, there are this called directory authorities. So, basically, this is a kind of public key infrastructure, realized inside the TOR network, that allow the exchange, nowadays, historically, through RSA algorithm, and nowadays through Biffy-Hermann, based on elliptic curve, based on key agreement, that allow the exchange of the AES keys suitable for the encryption of the actual message.

And those are the directory authorities mentioned here. Also, well, in this, I'm just having a kind of overview, also discussion around directory-based consensus might be interesting to see that this might be an issue, if so powerful, it's a very powerful attack on my compromise directory authorities, but intuitively, I think it is clear that this would be a significant issue. Well, other characteristics of TOR is the fact that it is basically seamless, almost seamless, of course. So, well, you need to have an enabled client, for example, there exists a so-called TOR browser, which is based on Firefox, that connect to the TOR or daemon, that usually you install in your device.

And this is a nice, well, nice aspect for a forensic investigator, since an investigator might look for traces of TOR usage, looking for the daemon or the modified application TOR enabled, let's say. Apart from this modification, the behavior of the application itself is not very different. Basically, instead of sending directly to the protocol stack of the operating system the packet that needs to be exchanged, the message, the network message that needs to be exchanged, the message that will become a network exchange, instead send it through a kind of proxy, the TOR daemon, which is listening on the device, that will perform the relevant TOR exchange and encryption, in order to establish the circuits that contact the TOR nodes, in order to allow the exchange to route the message inside the TOR network.

And this, for example, is the TOR browser that I mentioned here, and the background daemon that is named TOR usually. And, well, as I already mentioned that, but it's significant, the fact that TOR starts from the open source. The open source community is very deeply and carefully targeted to avoid the usage of bugs code and of backdoors inside the TOR implementation. Also, TOR by itself is the product of legitimate research at academic level. So, it stems from, I said again, a very legitimate context in order to protect privacy of individuals.

Well, just some parameters of the TOR daemon, which is the central agent of the TOR installation on a device. And, well, it's interesting from a computer science perspective, note that it's a nice way to allow kind of seamless from application perspective, since the functionality of the TOR infrastructure, the newly introduced protocols to connect the setup of the circuit inside the network level is completely demanded to this component. And so, the application can be very, the modification to the application can be very lightweight.

So, it's nice to have this separated component. And, well, this is basically everything that is interesting. Well, I stress the fact that then the application does not have any knowledge of any internals of the TOR network shape, composition, the composition, interaction, whatever, completely agnostic to that. And, well, it might be interesting to highlight the high-level duties of the daemon in order to understand what are key operations inside the TOR network.

For example, the circuit management, as I said, in order to establish the keys with different nodes, as well as the route that allow to go through the TOR network. And also, from a performance perspective, this is done, well, I already mentioned the stability of the circuit. The circuit. And that's why it's named circuit and not just route, because the circuit is maintained and stable for some time. And this improves a key point. And, well, the TOR, which is the good performance, is not the same of a normal network, of course.

You experience significant more latency, but still given the kind of optimization in the sense of performance in respect of previous designs, you have something that is reasonably useful in real context in terms of performance. And one point here is the fact that you have a kind of catch inside the daemon of your circuit and of the established key. So this speed up a lot, this initial setup for each after the first one to send recurring flow of messages. Cryptographic, the daemon, of course, exchange the key, keep track of the key of the session keys, and then perform the encryption according to what I said and what we will see in a scheme.

It acts as a client in respect of the directory authorities, meaning that established trust has pre-loaded trust signatures, basically, of those authorities. So established from the very moment in which you install this component, you have an established trust versus the directory authorities, and then you can get robustly the nodes, the present nodes, TOR nodes inside the network, in order to establish a secure connection, a trustable connection versus these internal TOR infrastructures, the nodes of the TOR network.

And well, of course, manage parameters of the connection itself. So, for example, maintain the same, I mentioned the fact that the circuit is stable. This should be detailed a little more, but basically, you have the entry point inside the TOR network, which is very, very stable. It will be maintained for maybe even months. And in order to, and this is the entry node from the perspective of the sender, is named guard node, the entry guardian of the node, of the network, of the TOR network.

And in order to maintain the same contact for such a long time, the daemon will keep track and maintain information also of the guardian nodes to continue the usage of them. Okay, well, those are technical aspects, not very relevant. Well, just for your information, since it might be relevant from a forensic analysis perspective, usually this is not a concluding information. But by default, TOR proxy interface run on the port 9050. Okay, so if you have this kind of port open, or even the 1951, which is a management port by default of the TOR infrastructure, you may have sign of TOR usage during an investigation.

Yeah, exactly, we have the control port here. And this is done through a SOX interface. Ah, well, another, well, we will not go into many details of the TOR internal mechanisms. What I mentioned here is the fact that TOR by itself can be, how to say, adaptable to the context. Not by itself, not by itself, but you, but has internal mechanisms that the user can configure in order to use them. And for example, like some other clear application, can disguise traffic into HTTPS traffic in order to raise almost no suspects about the kind of traffic.

Because nowadays, almost all the traffic on the internet is HTTPS, so perfectly mimicking this kind of normal behaviour in case the context required for the adaptation and carefulness. And this is a basic example of, well, since I see this figure, which is from a different presentation, I had the chance here to give credit to Filippo Goffredo, which is a former student of this course, that last year, that last year, gave a presentation, an homework exactly on the TOR network.

So I get some of the concepts described in the presentation and integrated them for this presentation I'm giving to you. So it's good to give credit for the work of your classmate, former classmate. I hope this give you even some motivation in doing your homework with carefulness and in a sound way, because maybe you can, you can, your name can fall in the official slide of this course for the years to come. So this might give you a kind of eternal glory among the following students.

I hope this motivates you a little good. I see that some of you are motivated. Well, well, some of you was already motivated since now the threshold of 100 pages for the homework. So I'm not sure if I'm doing a good stuff, but I think this kind of homework will be, well, known also the next year. So, well, just to give a kind of reflection on that. I was saying that this is the basic configuration of a TOR network.

We have at least three nodes as part of a circuit inside a TOR network. The guard as an entry point of the network, the guardian that I already mentioned. Then one or sometimes at least one middle relay that are the kind of anonymizing ops in order to delete dark traces, the journey of a message. And then the exit relay, the one that knows the final destination and then communicate with the final destination. All the traffic inside the TOR network is encrypted like an onion with at least three nodes.

Three different layers of encryption, maybe more. Exactly how many they are. Three in case of one middle relay, four in case of two middle relays and so on. Exactly depending on the number of the ops inside the network. And what kind of information are available to those nodes? Basically, a middle relay knows the previous node and the next one, but does not know anything apart that. The entry guard knows the entry guard knows the source of the message and that's all, not for sure the destination since completely encrypted in layers that cannot access by any means.

And the exit relay knows the destination, but does not know anything about the identity of the source. So basically, no nodes inside the network has the complete picture by itself about the exchange. And this is a very nice result. I already anticipated that the layered encryption, the fact that, well, this is the very name of why it's named onion routing, this kind of approach. Because the client, the sender creates the onion, the different layers of the onion, and then each node peel one of those layers until the final one peel off completely.

The onion has the, what I named here plain text, which is plain text from the perspective of the Tor network. Okay. It may be subject to end-to-end encryption, leaving not a very small amount of information. Also from the perspective of the exit node, but from the perspective of the Tor encryption, peel off the last layer and then has the plain text that can be understood by the destination. So these different layers are established by the demon, the Tor demon, in the circuit construction, and basically the step is that, first of all, the client, the sender, identifies a guard node.

A guard node. Well, this might be subject to different strategies. We may have a kind of hardwired, well, the user might configure exactly the guardian by hand, if you want to access exactly to a specific guard node. All this might be subject to the guard node. All this might be chosen among a pool of nodes available in the guard node list, which is something available at the worldwide level, and then connect to that and stay stable for a number of times. The protocol used by Tor infrastructure is named and Tor, and allowed to put this kind of handshake and setup, and also allows the creation of, through, tunneling through the guard node to the next hope inside the tornado.

Basically, the sender establishes, and this is true for every step, a TLS connection with the guardian after the guardian has been chosen. Then exchange with the middle relay node, in order to establish securely, without, of course, knowledge of the guardian node that acts as a tunnel, the key, key 2, for the second hope. And the same for the next nodes until the final one. In this example, we have just three nodes, and then key 3, the third key, AES encryption key, is the last one. Again, turned inside the circuit, which is established by the NTOR protocol itself.

So, thanks to this mechanism, the client, the sender, does not know the root inside the tunnel book, but has a kind of secure connection to the middle node and the exit node inside the circuit. And then can create the secure onion, as I mentioned before. The guard node, as I mentioned, is the direct contact with the sender, and is the only relay, only component of the TOR network, that knows in detail the information.

As I mentioned, the message may be subject to end-to-end encryption, that cannot access even the guard node, the payload of the connection, but has knowledge of the IP address of the sender. This is basically the only information that may be available to the entry point. And, well, you may, depending in case of this is a very reasonable achievement from a privacy perspective, but, of course, allow powerful attackers to find out a way in which you might identify traffic flows.

The fact that a guard node is stable is exactly done for mitigating a kind of traffic analysis. This might be a kind of a little not intuitive at this glance, because maybe you might think that I have more anonymity if I change my guard node. often. Well, this is not the case. This is not the case. This is not the case. And, in fact, because, they are stable because they are stable because the content. because maybe you might think that I have more anonymity if I change my guard node often. Well, this is not the case, this is not the case. And in fact, because the content, if the Tor network works properly, you in any case, and you should of course consider that you have many, many sender at the same time, so your traffic is mixed with other traffic in normal life of the network. This is enough to make anonym the message in normal condition, and instead changing the guardian often may lead to problems in terms of traffic analysis. I'll give a little explanation on that, and this is due to the fact that basically is in case, which is very reasonable, an attacker is able to compromise or provide a compromised guardian inside the list that allow or fool the the route, the normal route of traffic, like for example, poisoning GNS etc. versus a shadow Tor node. If you choose randomly for any iteration the the guardian, then even a small set of shadow guardian nodes may have a chance to see at least one one communication, one sending of anonymous data into the network. Over time, if I continuously, as a sender, to change randomly the the guardian, the probability that my message will go through a compromised node approach to one and the guardian, to change the guardian. In this case, it starts to have the significant possibility to acquire information that might be correlated with the passive listening at the output of the traffic. Since Torva itself has a low latency approach, it is possible to correlate. For example, we find that there is a transmission of, I don't know, one megabyte at one time, and more or less in a window that from a time perspective might be reasonable to go go through the network. We observe at the exit, as a passive listener, an exchange of one megabyte, then the correlation becomes possible for that exchange. It is a problem, in some cases maybe just sparsely this kind of correlation is not enough, but in case of very risky circumstances, even the identification of one individual of one individual that is talking to another one might be enough to put at risk the life of both individuals. So this is something that might be consistent. Instead, if I do not change my guardian at any time, but instead keep it stable for months, then basically, or the attacker is very likely, but in that case I can put further carefulness in identifying the guardian that is appropriate for my exchange, or if the attacker is not capable to act as a guardian in the very first case, then this is done for months.

On large numbers, this reduces significantly the possibility that a small number of compromised guardians obtain any significant results. And this is why this kind of pixel stable choice of the guardian has been chosen as design inside the Tor network. And this is basically implementation details and also some modifications on the design in different versions of Tor, like this kind of design I mentioned that was valid in any Tor version. That has been, has got even more, it's got even more strict in the sense that that up to a previous version you have, you can choose a free guardian, for example, for the development, for problems on the network to connect to. Nowadays, basically, you have just one one primary guard, and you modify that just in case of, from a client perspective, in case of problems.

And well, it's interesting, it will be interesting even discussing what are the constraints, the characteristics to be eligible as a guardian inside the network. But, well, as many other details, interesting aspects, this is, well, it would take too much time, in my opinion. And of course, just I mentioned that, of course, the directory authorities also controls if, in case of compromise, and in that case, revocate, the guard status of a node. Okay, so it's also, it is a kind, basically the concepts are the same of a public infrastructure with complexities and details very similar to what you should already know in that regard. Okay, it is, well, oh, what is interesting here is basically this final quote, that resume nicely what this design choice I mentioned, the fact that the connection to the guard the guard is stable is stable with this sentence. Basically, without the stability in the choice of the guard, the attacker can keep trying until it is successful.

And with the stability, basically, always successful at the very beginning, or that's it. The only compromising of the guard will not provide further help in compromising the anonymity of the sender for the sender for months, which in many cases is a reasonable result. Of course, you may note that this nice infrastructure is resilient, is very powerful against the compromise of relays, or small number of relays.

But a significantly powerful attacker, which is capable to passively listening on a significant share of the network, might still be able to, well, to perform traffic analysis and then find out information by that I mean basically government or international wide agreement between powerful parties that exist in reality, might be suitable to trespass the anonymity provided by Tor, mostly because you have, in any case, low latency solution. So you might still have, you do not at all, does not break the correlation, the time correlation between the flow of a message, and this can be catched for powerful attackers that can listen on many links or on specifically important links of the network.

This is something relevant to understand. Well, some notions, just past notion, just past definition, the user protocol, some of them historically, RSA is less used nowadays, AS in counter mode basically is still used, still in counter mode. Diffie Hellman based on elliptic curve, and elliptic curves is adopted for key agreement, and some nice curves are adopted in order to have nice performance, good performances, even in such a complex infrastructure. Diffie Hellman based on elliptic curve, and that's it. Diffie Hellman based on elliptic curve, and that's it. About the encryption I think now is clear, yeah, this is, we have the table that provides knowledge related to what I already said, some further implementation details, that you have an hash associated to each layer, so at each node, even without encryption, full encryption, you can check the integrity of the packet, and this you may note that is helpful to avoid the denial of service attacks that are, well, something that given the huge usage of resources of the store, and the relatively small number of nodes in that network is a catchy possibility for an attacker, provided an attempt of denial of service, or distributed denial of service, in order to compromise a part of the Tor network, and you may well understand that this can be done in combination with the confirmation of some specific node in order to direct, to drive the choice of the circuit to a smaller portion of the network. So this is to say that protection from denial of service must be a significant concept, and has been a significant concept in the design of the Tor network, and for example we have a proof, a clue, in the fact that we have a digest on each layer.

Another interesting point is that basically, in order to make traffic analysis more complex, we have traffic, we may have some flexibility, but basically in most cases we have fixed size units of transmission inside the Tor network, which are alpha kilobytes inside, in order to, as you may imagine, in order to avoid the traffic analysis on the length of the packet. Your classmate provided also some demo of how it can be identified from a network forensic perspective and how this can be mitigated. The information about usage of Tor, we have seen that there are signs on host level, with daemons and application, we may see traffic, intra-host traffic to the port, to the proxy port 1950 or 1951, we may see, this is another aspect that has been performed, capturing traffic, outgoing traffic from the node. We may see in the list of destination addresses, we may match, even in an automatic way, as suggested by your classmate, the comparison versus the Tor node list, which is publicly available, and this is an easy way to find out automatically chosen guard nodes. We can diminish the possibility by configuring by hand the Tor node that we know from out-of-band communication and which is not in the public node lists. There exist nodes in public lists, and nodes that are not in public lists, but that are alleged as guard nodes. So this is a kind of extra care that that normally is possible for at least a medium level in terms of skillfulness kind of target of investigation.

I mentioned the fact that a powerful attacker can transparse the anonymity of a Tor network, so is what mentioned the 14 eyes alliance, which is a kind of agreement at agency level, so it's not a kind of treaty at country level, but it is a kind of cooperation agreement between 14 states, countries, the original five are those United States, Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, and then four added to that, and then other five up to the the 14 that now are comprised in this alliance, and this is exactly an agreement to exchange intelligence information that might be a significant menace for the Tor network in the sense that the majority of Tor networks fall inside a country of this alliance that by agreement is willing to exchange information so they can coordinate in order to share statistical information, and correlate data and agree on a procedure according to the different already agreed to how about how to proceed, even given the different jurisdiction, and then can cooperate to to find out who is effectively using a Tor in case of crimes or investigation needs, let's say.

So in case you are involved in this type of, in such a case of a kind of international investigation, that relates to Tor infrastructure, maybe, well, depends on the present level of friendship between the countries, but more between the agency, but maybe you may access a very relevant information in order to obtain data on usage of the Tor, well, well, I would say another detail that that I mentioned the fact that basically you, this is the basic infrastructure, usually you have many middle relay, if you have many and not stable middle relays, which is by default the possibility to change relays in an older version of Tor, you might be subject basically to the same concept of the entry guardian, a malicious, a set of malicious nodes that can stay inside the network and with a certain degree of frequency obtain information and be able to correlate data, so newer version or plugins like one named Vanguard that can stay inside the network and make stable also the internal part of the circuit, not only the guard at the entry point, otherwise you may have this kind of attack that basically may, in this case, the point is the factor that having mid- the relays that listen traffic, even acquiring a small fraction of the whole traffic can be capable to identify the guard and also to have clues on the exit guard and then capable to correlate the information after achieving the identification of the guard and the exit node of a user and this is the article that explains this kind of attack in details, if you are interested.

And finally I mentioned, since probably exactly this kind of attack on the traffic analysis on the the middle relays, the middle relays used in some notable case, one of them is the infamous Boys Town case that I also mentioned at the beginning of this lesson, which is an organization, a network, a dark network of child pornography that counts that counts hundreds of thousands of users using a modified chat system based on Tor network in order to obtain anonymity. And we do not have very many details on that, but there is the hypothesis that during the investigation has been used for the the guard node, this guard node attacks, which is on middle relays, in order to find out during the investigation. Then when some part, some identification of sources of criminals has already been of devices, has already been of devices, has already been of devices, has already been of devices, has been of been identified, then using this kind of attacks, from, thanks to traffic analysis, in some weeks or months, the investigators have been able to find out more knowledge of this darknet, and then to identify, enlarge the list of suspects, this is a sound hypothesis. This is a sound hypothesis, at least, even if we do not have exact details on the investigation about this point. But it seems significant. Also, from a forensic perspective, it is significant to mention that the initial phase and main evidence comes from other sources of evidence comes from other sources, not from the findings inside the Tor network, those just corroborated the investigation. But the final result was found inside nodes and by not technically speaking perfect, speaking perfect behaviour of the criminals involved in the darknet. And this is just to remember that pretty often the network forensics is just a complementary point in an investigation. In case you are interested in this Boystown, in more Boystown details, I put here a link to the link where you can find some further details, where you can find some further details for the real investigation of what is known from a public and open perspective. Questions? We may have the break there. Okay, we can restart. We can restart also with the acknowledgement. In this case, our... well, we are switching, unless there are questions or remarks from previous description about Tor, we switch on cloud forensics topic that, well, is a pretty new branch of digital forensics that is related to the cloud.

And also, I'd like to acknowledge another contributor, another former student of this course from last year, that provided an interesting description and interesting insights. I plan to put the report on the portal, since I just get some info, probably also for Tor contribution, I will put in further readings directly on the portal, the reports of your students, of your test mates. Those are not official part of the exam, of the course today, are just just in case you want to go more in detail about these concepts, but are not official part of the course. So, as I described in the beginning of the lesson, will not by itself be part of the exam.

Of course, in the open questions, you may... Of course, in the open questions, you may... this... even if not part of the course, you may... this... might be... might allow you to enrich your answer... This can be suitable for improving your evaluation... but, well... This can be suitable for improving your evaluation... but, well... this is basically... This is basically true for every knowledge related to the course, you may... you may... You may... this... You may... this... even if not part of the course, you may... this... even if not part of the course, might be... may allow you to enrich your answer... Collaboration... Which should be suitable for improving... improving your evaluation... but... well... ...this is basically... uh... true... for every knowledge related... to... your... digital forensic awareness... true for every knowledge related to your digital forensic awareness, skillfulness, competence, as well as related to everything, improving your logical thinking capabilities that allow you to better organize your answer and argumentations. So this is basically the same interesting information that may be useful but not the official part and likely will not give you very much contribution from the bare evaluation of your written exam, depending on what I think is more interesting for you and I respect either choices. How about cloud forensics?

Well, what is? It's a fresh new branch, as I said, with different aspects. It's a relatively new discipline. Well, if you think the added millennial history of forensic, of course, but even computer related forensics is much older than that. Digital cloud forensics is growing as born more or less 15 years ago and then is in stable growing condition because ever and ever the interaction with the cloud is enlarging even in respect of artificial intelligence and the interaction of agentic AI with the interaction of artificial intelligence agents intelligence agents that interact with your application through specific APIs. Even in this aspect, even if not officially in this slide is getting a lot of momentum really in these weeks and will be part of and I'm almost sure that it will be part of your work in the next few years or even months. And well, the principle here is that the cloud is a not avoidable new phase of the forensics and with that we have also some bad news in the sense that that as the cloud adoption rises and as the incidents related to data breaches become more complex and cloud related, So the investigation capability to access directly the data itself has a significant reduction both in trustability of the data and in the possibility at all to access physically, directly, data.

data. I mentioned the normal, historical, typical procedure of a digital forensic investigator, which is I access the physical medium and then I access the physical bits and I acquire the physical bits from the physical container of that bit. Well, this normal behavior is no longer available in a cloud forensic scenario, in a cloud scenario at all, due to the structural peculiarities that make digital forensics much other than digital forensics. For a number of reasons that we can discuss and exemplify in the next few slides. Well, all of us know this which is a technical concept but also a kind of buzzword, the multi-tenancy, the fact that we have multiple users distributed distributed in many, in any angle of the world that may access the same results in the same data center shared through containerization, virtualization, sandboxing, etc.

in order to perform a large share of everyday work in modern computer related work. So, we have the big problem here from a forensic investigation that the same resource is shared by many users and many of them have nothing to do with the suspect under investigation. So, an investigator cannot simply, as can do in the old, nice way, since the apparatus, the ur-drive, detach it from any connection and then calmly, in the safe haven of the secured forensic lab, extract all the information.

For a number of reasons, there is the involvement of different users, so you cannot acquire innocent, unsuspectful users' data during an investigation. This violates a number of rules in a significant number of countries in the world. So, this cannot be acceptable. And even the cloud provider would never allow that because this means interruption of service may be damaged for millions of euros for missing rewards due to inactivity of the data center. And this, as many other aspects, requires cloud provider cooperation. And that also requires, even in case of cooperation, newly shaped procedures that protect the privacy of the different users using the data center.

Another key point that might leave some degree of usefulness from a forensic perspective, but that also might be very problematic, is the fact that resources, and I mean almost any end-user perceives the resources, perceived resources, might be volatile and effemoral, even the storage. What an old-fashioned forensic investigator is used to think as a concrete and immutable storage might be very volatile in a cloud environment. What an old-fashioned forensic investigator is used to think as a concrete and immutable storage might be very volatile in a cloud environment. Because we have instances of containers, virtual machines, virtual disks, virtual disks, serverless services, and so on, and so on, that may increase, enlarge, reduce, or even disappear in a matter of seconds, according to the present demand of that service, in order to squeeze, in order to squeeze as much as possible the resources, the physical resources available in a data center.

And this might mean that depending on the contract, on the configuration, on the strategy chosen by the cloud forensics, the memory, the memory, the process, even the storage, as well as the logs and application operating system from end-user perspective level, that may go on immediately. And this may be at any scale due to exactly the auto-scaling capability of this scenario. This, as I mentioned, may also give some possibility. From the other side, we may instead have the redundancy concept and the virtual concept that allows the creation, the multiplication, the possibility to have multiple instances of the same information, in different parts of the world, in different data centers of a specific cloud provider, that might survive, on the contrary, even on a catastrophic event, like a complete physical destruction of a data center, which is a very unlikely event, but still does not imply the complete cancellation of an evidence, of a potential evidence.

And this duplication, thanks to the snapshotting capability of this kind of context, may be created and distributed again in a matter of seconds. And something that still maintains as true is the fact that even if we have multiple copies of the same instance, even if we have multiple data, still, multiple data in multiple physical locations, even under our jurisdiction, the forensic investigators have not accessed physically those instances unless the cloud service provider agrees to provide them to the investigator.

And most of the time, also this provision is not direct, but instead mediated by the typical tools available at that cloud service provider level. I mentioned here, for example, two tools that allow for archiving resources, like the Amazon Glacier or the Blob Archive from Azure, that are pretty similar in principle. We have, for example, the possibility to store and, in some cases, even avoid the modification of data stored on a cloud service provider. Note, this is nice from an investigation perspective, since, as an investigator, I can, if the cloud service provider agrees to cooperate, access data with a full-fledged set of information that might be very, very, very interesting from an investigation perspective.

But you should be always aware that I'm implying the legitimate behaviour, the clean behaviour of the cloud service provider. I'm not, and I cannot treat the cloud service provider as an adversary, because in that case, I do not have any means to check the correctness, the soundness of data that the cloud service provider is providing me. Also, because to access those data, I need to use, I do not have 99% of the time as a forensic investigator, direct physical access to the premise of the cloud service provider.

But instead, I need to use the tools used to manage the cloud resources, for example, the interface, the AWS interface, to access S3 data on the glacier, to access the data there. The data there, not the physical address. This is a significant shift in respect of normal interaction. And well, as you may imagine, this kind of dependency, well, the, how to say, what, from an end user perspective, are you capable to access as a consequence?

Also, also, the digital forensic investigator is capable to access, may vary a lot depending on the cloud model that you are considering. For example, in the case of infrastructure as a service, we may have relevant access to low-level metadata and logs. While instead, on platform, or even worse, in the case of service and software as a service, we may have a very, very limited amount to relevant, forensically speaking, data. And as I mentioned, in any case, we, as an investigator, are just a kind of end user, 90% of the time.

So we have the same view of an end user, which in some cases might be very limited to what really matters in terms of proof and data. And if we have cooperation, as I said, we need to rely on tools, or if we have our tools, in fact, there are tools that are used historically, even historical tools, in a digital forensic investigation, that have been enlarged, updated, allowing to interact with the cloud, with cloud providers, using the specific APIs, and then allowed to run an analysis using an old tool that connects to cloud data through the cloud provider APIs.

Again, however, even if we are using, and this, well, might be even more subtle from, as a menace, let me say, because if we use our well-known instrument to perform an analysis, and as we always use it as a forensic investigator to acquire disks, to access memory content, etc., and so we are used to completely trust our instrument finding, thanks to the fact that we are using the same interface, we may be tempted from a kind of cognitive friction to trust the result coming from cloud service provider API as if we have physical access to that device. Well, this is not, this is always not the case.

Okay, so we need to be aware as an investigator of this different shape of the context. Well, let's have a quick discussion on the different models, what kind of information we can acquire in different cloud models. In software as a service, as you know, as you know, the provider may need the entire infrastructure without access to the lower part of the system, the operating system, but even more, the firmware, the underlying low-level provision. In that case, basically, any kind of information we can acquire, basically, any kind of information is completely dependent on the cloud provider cooperation. Basically, you cannot access anything by just the user level information. Well, I'm a little dramatic, but as you can understand, we've already performed some investigation, some discussion at file system level, at metadata level, basically, 80% of all those information cannot be acquired, or if acquired, can be manipulated by external applications in order to manage the underlying system. So, so, are hardly very reliable for forensically sound investigation, while some specific analyses are avoided at all, like access to the memory of the application of the system.

So, I'll be better in case of platform as a service where the users have the duty to manage the application through the control of the platform provided by the cloud service provider. In this case, we have the possibility to access to the cloud service provider. In this case, we have the possibility to access to the cloud service provider. In this case, we may have access to some operating system logs, we have a larger control of the application's behavior, and then the investigation is more sound, is more significant, let me say. Finally, the infrastructure as a service is where we might perceive a similarity on a physical system, where we can manage details of the hardware, of the configuration, of the network, of the configuration, of the network.

And then also the related logs can be acquired and analyzed by a forensic investigator. We, again, should not, should never have forgotten to, are interacting, in any case, with the cloud service provider interface, not with a direct hardware control. The hardware control and access, which is relevant for you. So, just an example of a service provider that might, in many cases, is a lot useful in a forensic investigation, the Amazon S3, a very well-known kind of storage service that is provided to many application-level services, to many cases, and can be used in an external number of use cases. And from a forensic perspective, the usage of S3 may provide a lot of interest, because a law for ease identification, a law for unique identification, a a granular level, a detailed level of granularity, in some cases, can also be long-term, like in case of Glacier, we have, in particular, multiple, multiple possibilities of storage glass that might that might adapt the time and the status on the context, or, as I mentioned, that might be long-term retain, for example, exactly for legal restrictions, cases in which you need to maintain a data for long-term.

Well, the S3 service allows to implement a contractual kind of WOM property, meaning that you may contractually have the assurance, even without your will, if you change your mind and want to delete it, to manage your and maintain, to maintain, for example, a data for two years, exactly like it was written on a write-ons rig many times, the WOM case that we mentioned yesterday, for example, for anti-forensical network level. It's very nice, very nice, very nice, if we have this kind of option available, a forensic investigator might access to this system and acquire information that cannot, even with privilege of system administrator, if you are not a cloud service provider, provider administrator, if you are not a cloud service provider, if you are not a cloud service provider, from the perspective of end-user, cannot be deleted.

In this case, in this case, moreover, we have the versioning, an extensive versioning of the object, meaning that we are capable contractually, this is done for redundancy, for assurance, we have high availability, guaranteed by contractors, and this means that we may have a full and this means that we may have a full and this means that we may have the versioning, an extensive versioning of the object, meaning that we are capable contractually, this is done for redundancy, for assurance, we have high availability, guaranteed by contractual terms, and this means that we may have a full and understandable version of the information that allows a complete and sound reconstruction of the life of that data. As you can imagine, this is a kind of goldmine for an investigator, and this is done completely outside the power of manipulation of the end-user.

So, if we choose to trust the cloud service provider, then we have a lot of helpful information here. We may also have some complexity. From time to time, we read cases in which, due to maybe jurisdictional, contractual, strategical terms, of providers do not allow access to another party that wants to decrypt some data, even if in the possibility of the provider to do that. This is because, basically, data inside the cloud premises are protected by encryption, by default, and in some cases, well, we have a nice kind of power balancing, in which the encryption keys are only available at the end-user level.

In some cases, not the cases in which the encryption is managed at the infrastructural level by the cloud, but in case the end-user managed that, the end-user might be the only owner of the key. And in that case, I mention that because we should be aware of the different scenarios and we should be aware that the cloud service provider might be an obstacle, might be an obstacle, and might be not a kind of super-powered hero that can access everything. Okay? This is what to be understood, again, in order to drive properly an investigation. Ah, well, I mentioned the fact that different well, I'm mentioning S3 here, but of course, other cloud provider, Thermis 1, allow for very similar techniques to store data with different characteristics.

And I mentioned different class of storage, and this is relevant because we may have long-term retention in some cases. But also, this might imply, in other cases, that we have a very ephemeral data that can disappear in case of auto-adjusting storage resources for seconds, in some cases, just the time to perform an operation that might be a relevant operation in a forensic investigation, and then release of death. Again, this is something we should be aware of when we do an investigation.

Okay, about the complexities introduced by the cloud, also the jurisdictional fragmentation, as you may imagine, is a serious problem. In different countries, we have very, very different regimes of protection, information protection, and we can go until the very deep concept of who is the owner of a data. For example, there is a very different sensitivity around that in the United States and in Europe. And this reflects, of course, also in the laws, in the legislature around those aspects.

Very nice. Very nice. And also, another nice aspect is the fact that some rules might ask specific kind of behavior even outside the country in which it applies. And, as you may imagine, in that case we may have a consistent clash of different legal lines. And, well, what to apply in these cases may be very much dependent on the specific case and in general can be a really nice mess in practice. Oh, nice mention here is the GDPR well-known versus the U.S. Cloud Act that might be pretty competing.

Also due to the core fact that in the United States the owner of your data is not necessarily you, but might well be the platform that you are using. So, this is just as an example of a core principle very different in these two regions that impacts significantly what are the ongoing legal procedure. And that requires many times kind of bilateral agreement to manage a single case. And, well, from an investigation this is putting a lot of randomness complexity, let's say, about how to approach the investigation.

the investigation versus our multinational cloud service provider like maybe Amazon, Google or any large player like that. Also, from the love and integrity perspective, we have subtle and problematic points. For example, another nice aspect that is interesting to note is the fact that by default logs might be not fully accurate, meaning not fully complete. Why? Why? Because, for example, a common default setup in a cloud provider is that management operations are logged by default.

What I mean by management operations like running a new instance, deleting a consistent service like a database, modifying a large-scale policy procedure for identification and authorization, authentication management. So, this is an absolute normal behavior to log it in. While, on the contrary, for data plane, so-called data plane events, this is absolutely, well, maybe not absolutely, but many times not the case. The log of this kind of operation, like, for example, the access in read mode of a stored S3 object.

And if the access is not explicitly set at local, at fine-grained, or at a larger full infrastructure level enabled, then we may have, I put this here because can be really significant, results in which... here because can be really significant, results in which enormous operation might be not logged at all, like for example if this kind of event, the reading of objects, is not logged, an attacker might exfiltrate a full content of a storage, like 50 gigawatts of data, without being noticed, without leaving remnants in the logs, and this can be astonishing at first glance, but this may happen in some cloud configuration. And well, ah well, of course, even we may encounter something legal, not really technical, but exactly around the line that I mentioned, we may choose to trust a cloud service provider during an investigation. But still, in the court of justice, this reliance may be questioned by the counterpart, saying, okay, we have, for example, an integrity put on the resources, but this integrity is a kind of digital signature that uses the cloud provider keys, but this is a third party, maybe it's not as trusted as we think. How can we be sure about that? This kind of reasoning might be pretty much challenging and relevant in a court of justice, and this might, according to some type of debate, lead to very risky ways, if you rely only on cloud-provided artifacts on cloud-provided evidences. And also, we should not forget the complexity, just from a pure technical perspective, of our scenario. For example, again, another aspect of living inside virtual machines for the services provided by the cloud provider means that an instance may encounter, well, delay in the execution, just because the physical machine, the physical device has maybe an overload in that very time.

But this might have consequences. If I delay the running of an operating system, maybe I may have a kind of drift of the time inside the virtual machine and outside in the bare metal. And this might be, in some cases, very relevant because I can, according to the time, and I'm not able to reconstruct the sound timeline with the erroneous timestamps that was used inside a virtual machine that, that note that depending on the load, on the condition of a specific data center or on the data center network, we may have a shift from the real clock of seconds, but even in some cases of minutes. And you might well understand that this might be very significant from an investigation perspective.

Okay, those are the nice aspects that may make very challenging and intriguing and novel to some degree an investigation when you interact with a cloud service provider, when you interact with a cloud service provider, and, well, interesting field. Then we can go in more detail in what are the implications, still at a high level, and with some examples, of these issues in the phases of an investigation. But since we are almost at the end of the lesson, I will leave this for the next week. But yeah, I'm happy to see a question.

I'm sorry, did I miss last part? Sorry, did I miss last part? I wasn't already, yeah. It's not a problem of a certificate, but of a general trustability of a third party that neither the jury nor the judge has access to. So, basically, it's an hypothesis. Basically, it's not a technical problem here. We think that the signature, the keys are valid. Well, better.

We cannot verify that unless, and usually the cloud service provider does not provide this kind of access, we can access, we can access to the very key, to the very signatures that we see. Basically, we, as a court, as a judge, need to rely on the word of the cloud service provider that says, we used uncompromised keys. You might trust that, yes, you can, but you cannot verify, and this is an issue from a theoretical perspective, because it cannot verify, technically, if what is a third party, which is completely unrelated from you, from the judge, is correct or not. That's a problem. How would the signature be verified? The signature is verified by the cloud service provider. That's the point. You trust that? Maybe.

Because this is an internal process. The signature is verified by the internal check of the object. Of course, if you acquire the object, from that point on, you have your signature and everything is verifiable. But the point is, before I acquired the data, how I can be sure that the cloud service provider will not modify that? That's the point. Usually, the cloud service provider, like Amazon, has a lot of interest in performing well, otherwise we'll have billions of damage. But you cannot verify that. And this is a problem from the Forensic Analysis Principles. Okay? Thank you for the nice question.

For the remarks? Okay. For today, we are done.
