Okay, for the record, we are going to have a nice number of presentations for many interesting homeworks, and in the second part, we will have the usual lesson, but now, not for the work from myself, and I leave room to Chiara for the first presentation. Thank you. Take your time. But, well, I see the slide, by the way. No problem, you can talk, you may use the microphone, and I have this microphone open, and sit there, if you want, if you like that, or as you can, yes.

I see, physical, well, we are experiencing some physical issue, but we are able to manage and solve in a few seconds, with usual polytechnical efficiency. And you have to switch off. Good morning, everyone. I'm Chiara Iorio, and I'm here to present to you my homework about the COVID-19 vulnerability, and how we can deploy the data it's deployed in Microsoft Asia. So, first of all, let's start by setting up the content.

We are not seeing... Okay, last part is better. Well, this is a nice option to imagine and picture from your phone the nice word that is explaining. But, if you are pretty, how to say, straight forward, we can share as well, hopefully. You have another screen, and then, probably, it's on the right of your phone the lesson. And it should appear to you. Yeah. No. Maybe you've had many. Yeah, I have many screens, but... Wow. Let's try it with different ones, until you find the... The one correct one?

Yeah. Well, those are just because of your output. Probably you crave also another output. Just, well... I don't know which one. I don't think that you should choose one of them. Just try it, because you can't go on the presentation page. This one? This is the one to share. Try to move your slide just... No, not just the little window, I mean, physically. Yeah, I try to put it. Yeah? Yeah, but it doesn't work. It... Well, I'm not the expert. Usually it's a good word for me. Yeah, but it's... Let's see. Then... Let's try it. Now... Now... This is... Okay, okay, okay. Okay. Wait a minute. Okay.

Let's try it. Let's try it. Let's go back. Go to the left. Go to the right. Okay. Well...

Well, you may understand how hard it is to be here. You think it's easy, but it's not very easy. It's pretty strange. Yeah. It's pretty strange. Yeah. Maybe you have an option. I'm not talking about this. I have an option to say slide show or something like that among the ones. Do you think the answer is... Oh, please. I have an option. No. No. No.

No. The other one? No. No. The other part... Um... The purple one? Or what? All right, this is reasonable, I would say. Okay, we did it. Thank you. Well, good. I'm sorry, your time is over. So, nice presentation and we'll see you next time.

Good morning, everyone. I'm Karen Lourdes, and I'm here to present to you my homework about the copy-sale vulnerability and how we can get access for it in Microsoft Azure. So, first of all, we set up the context. We are imaging a software company where there are different departments. So, each team is developing somehow independently their own apps, and they are all working on a shared Azure Kubernetes service, so an Azure-provided cluster. And, well, the different teams have separated areas where to work on, based on namespaces, role-based control, network qualities, and so on. Both for security, but also to prevent that someone tries to use more resources than they should. And, well, to follow the least-privileged principle and to reduce the window of exposure, each one of the employees can only create unprivileged bugs, because they are all the privileges they need to do their work, so they don't need anything else.

But, what if one of them wants to try to get more privileges and access to the underlying node? Well, it could try to rely on the copy-sale vulnerability. First, we will look at the copy-sale vulnerability on a standard Linux system. So, the copy-sale vulnerability was what made public, like, at the end of April 2026, and it allows for a 100% reliable privilege escalation. And, it was marked at 7.8 score, a CDX actual core. And, well, it relies on a bug that was found in a cryptographic template that we used for APAD in ITSR. And, that allows any unprivileged user to trigger a deterministic form by write in the page cache of every read-only binary in the system.

And, in the BOC they developed, well, they tried to modify the page cache of a set UID binary, and specifically of SUP, in order to get these full privileges access. But, well, it is pretty sad, because as it modifies only the page cache, standard file-interviewed tools cannot see, obviously, any change on the disk. But, in Kubernetes, the same vulnerability allows for different exploits. Specifically, it is possible to do a cross-container poisoning, so lateral movement, in order to install a backlog. But, it also allows, as we wanted to do before, to do a container escape. So, to get to the underlying node. And, for the rest of the presentation, we will focus on this term. But, to understand how it works, we have to learn some better context about how container images are done.

Well, container images are not single files, but they are made up of different layers. And, on the base layer, we have some system binaries, such as cat or bash. And, on Kubernetes, if two containers have the same base image layer, this is shared. And, this is stored only one physical on the node. And, the two containers can access it through another layer. Usually, they see the same version, and also the same version in the page cache. When one of them does a bright modification, well, the container only stores in one of the upper layers the modifications, in order to keep these images as small as possible. But, thanks to the copy failure vulnerability, we can bypass that copyback thing. And, well, this allows for container, cross-container propagation of our changes in the page cache.

In fact, if we create a container image that is exactly the same version of the one of our privileged pods running in our cluster, a difficult example is a QPROXY, that is a network component present in almost every cluster. Well, if we use the same exact base layer, as I said, they share also the page cache. And, if we target for this export binary, like I can set minus minus live, minus live, I can set. Well, we can run a custom payload. In fact, first of all, we need to create a socket using this algorithm, AF-algorithm. Then, send more payload chance, the payload, we want the payload binary, we want to inject, and we want to execute with privileges through the socket.

Call this function, this is a splice that allows to copy data from one file descriptor to another one, and then trigger the correction. So, if we do all that for the full payload, well, the IPSAT binary cache will be overwritten, all by this custom payload. And the next time the privileged container will run IPSAT, and that is used in its normal function, so it will happen at a certain point in time, well, it will run our shellcode with root privileges. And here, we have an example of payload, the one I used. And, well, it simply mounts the file, the original node file system, on the mount directory in the kubeproxy pod. And then, we are just creating a file in the root directory and writing, well, we have successfully done our container escape.

But, well, our attacker may do whatever he wants. Also, open our reverse shell or add some credentials for SSH in order to be able to conduct this node again in the future. And, well, at the beginning, we have to include libc.h because we are building our code against the kernels non-lipc. In order to have a small binary that is also independent of the node we were running it on, because all the sentences are directly inserted in the binary. And, well, the only constraint is that this binary payload compiled must be smaller than the ITSAT binary in order to make the exploit work. Now, we will move to the detection of this exploit vulnerability. Well, Azure Monitor, as we have seen during the lectures, it is the unified observable server target for Azure Monitor, and it allows to gather metrics, logs, and so on from our customers.

And, from that logs and metrics, we can also build custom dashboards such as this one. This is our customized dashboard, and these are two logs taken from it. On the left side, we see the number of ready nodes in our cluster, while on the right one, the number of codes in every namespace. The namespace queue system is a management one, and it has the highest number of codes, while TenantClean and TenantBoot are two namespaces associated to different teams in our company. And here, yeah, quite more, but there are other four plots from this dashboard. And, well, we can see the CPU usage, RAM usage, received bytes, and submitted bytes for each namespace. And, as you see, in most cases, the namespace that is consuming more resources is the system one, system one, it is that, as we said, it's a system one.

And, well, from this plot, we cannot see anything very strange that may imitate a compromise, but, well, as we know from what we've already said, that is pretty impossible. Copy-fail is pretty impossible to detect just from simple methods. And, well, from the cluster page itself, we can also see the list of all the plots that are present in our cluster. And here, we see that there is a copy-fail one. And, well, we can also look at details, so we can see the namespace, the container name, but also the start time, and the registry from which the image was pulled from. And, well, obviously, here, the name is a little self-explanatory, but in a real case, we would expect our attacker to change that name. But the image may be more somehow important because if our company has a list of approved registries from which you can pull your own images, well, it's pretty strange that maybe you use your personal one for something of the company.

And, well, from that page, we can also see the live events of our container. And here, it can just be, well, the container started, and half an hour after the container was killed. Well, not very far. And these events can be seen, like, real time. So if we are looking now at the code and what's happening in our cluster, but in the log editing fix it up, so from logs that are automatically taken by Azure Monitor, there are also logs telling us the same information, and that could last for, well, the retention period, our system manager slides. So this information is not a turnaround. And, well, as we said, we want to understand and know something more. And for, yes, we can rely on eBPF and eBPF-based tools like Tetragan.

Well, eBPF is a technology that allows to insert custom code inside the kernel, like for observability or so on. And it is triggered, like, when a system call is executed or when a kernel function is executed. And, well, this code has to pass through multiple verification steps, also static verification, in order to avoid that malicious code is inserted directly into the kernel. And, well, Tetragan leverages on eBPF to create a monitor, the different system codes and, or kernel function, and, well, it also allows to block this operation in certain cases. And the two main advantages that are really important in our case is, well, first of all, the overhead is really small. The overhead introduced by this tool is really small, like less than 1%, so probably it's completely negligible. And the second thing is that it collects Kubernetes-aware logs.

So we can also know the namespaces, hubs, and so on, associated to a certain event, and that it's really important to build up our content. And, Tetragan can be integrated natively in almost all cloud providers' structures. And in the case of Azure, this one that we are analyzing, we have to, we have a demo set with the Tetragan codes. So we have one cloud, Tetragan code, on each node, and they push their logs into this directory, and Vector, this is a data pipelining tool, just makes them, like, immediately after they are written, so the window of exposure is really small, and sends them to a Azure data collection endpoint. We can see that the URL, which we can send our HTTP requests and responses, and it's an authenticated API, because we have to create some credentials that are shared between Vector and the endpoint, to ensure that a fake agent or attacker cannot send fake logs.

And, well, this is here done, using a shared, a shared credential, but, well, we could also create certificates, or so on, depends on our content. Then, results are managed, following a data collection rule, in our case, simply forwarded, and saved to a custom table in the Log Analytics workspace. So, if you can directly extract, so, if you can directly enter, in the Tetragon code, we can see these logs, and, but, they're also accessible in the table, the Azure Monitor table, as we'll see in a second. Tetragon, by default, monitors the process start, and process end for each process, so, here we can see that, our copy-fail, pocket-container, in the 10th Lune space, well, run BIM copy-fail, which target the ITSET binary. And, well, then I added a custom policy, custom tracing policy, that tells Tetragon also wants to monitor more than just process, active, and then, and, well, here I added a policy to monitor the file system mounts.

They are a pretty strange operation, that containers should never do. And, as we see, well, when the QPROXY container runs IPSET minus minus version, well, also the mounts take place. And, here, we have the Log Analytics log, as we said. It carries out very specific information, so, also container IDs, pod IDs, the images, and the process, the arguments, and, finally, also the timestamp, that, well, is pretty useful for creating our timeline. And, in this case, we can see the file system mount. So, here, we have the QPROXY container, which is running IPSET minus minus version, and, well, at a 13 point, it also calls this function SIT mount, with the arguments, a certified bug, and, well, the system, the file system mount, of course.

Finally, we can also add another policy that allows us to wind up when the AF-ALG socket is created or loose, so when this kernel function is invoked, essentially. And, here, we see that after, well, when the being-copy-fade binary is called, then this kernel function is executed multiple times, because it is the one used to move the payload somehow from our binary to the IPSET binary cache, page cache. And, finally, as we already said, with Etagon, we can also stop and block the socket creation, so we specify to send a CKL access, when it is used. And, here, also, the tracing policy, where bosses explain this action, but also the logs will still be pushed on log monitors, as you can see, below, and, well, it tells us that the action, in that case, was CKL.

Obviously, this one is not the only way to stop the exploit of copy-fail. The most secure version is clearly to patch your system, as, in April 2026, a patch was released. And, well, the other option is to block the loading of the kernel module that is specific for this operation. And that was the solution initially used by A-. And, finally, we can conclude with some final branching configuration. So, let's sum up what we have already said. Tetragon collects the data, the logs, and events directly at the kernel space, and it prevents time of use, time of use, time of use attacks, as the arguments are directly collected from kernel space, so where they can no more be modified by the attackers. And, also, attackers from a privileged container cannot modify hooks or dogs.

Then, the forensic context is enriched thanks to the Kubernetes over information, product information, and user information. Then, a vector immediately takes the logs from a tetragon, so the window of exposure is really limited. And, it can also be configured not to be able to change your log analytics that are already pushing out the logs. And, finally, vector uses TLS 1.2.1.2.3 to encrypt all the logs to prevent many in the middle of modification, and also the fact that the API is authenticated through credentials or certificates prevents fake actors from injecting fake logs. So, that's my presentation. Thank you very much for your attention. We are going to questions. Thank you.

So, questions. Well, I have a general question, more a comment. Apart the fact that I thank you for this sample, that is a nice, well, chance for us to have a flavor of what is a specific case in the world of containers that is a nice, specific use case and pretty relevant one and with a growing relevance in modern context of what a forensic investigator can be involved. So, in this kind of comment, do you think that, according to your experience, which is, of course, limited, but what do you think, how hard is to perform a forensic investigation in a Kubernetes or, more generally, container scenario?

Just a kind of general remark. Well, I think it's pretty hard if we have only to rely on like, in this case, standard cloud providers platforms, because usually they do not show much. And, as we have already said, in the Kubernetes world, everything is a flavor. So, we need some help to sort these logs probably at a lower layer. So, directly on the node, and probably that's way it's directly on the kernel. Because if the tenant or system manager does not deploy a system to get more information from the beginning, so just to maybe monitor these resources and then that can be used also for identification, well, with this system, it's possible. otherwise it's very, very difficult. Obviously, a point I thought about doing this homework is that it's also difficult to be sure that these logs are true, because obviously we do everything to reduce the exposure and so on, but it's difficult to really be sure that nobody modified somehow something in the pipeline.

And, well, I think that the only remediation for that is to anchor the logs to a hardware component, for example, a TPM or something like that. This is somehow related to what I'm doing in my thesis. And, well, I think that's it, but with standard monitoring tools, it's very hard to gather information. Okay, so, well, thank you. I agree, by the way. if you, very, since you mentioned that you are doing in your thesis, can you, just in a few words, mention what you are doing? Because, if I understand correctly, you are anchoring trusted computing with control somehow of containers. Is that right? And then, if you... Well, we are developing a framework to do and expand remote attestation also on Kubernetes clusters and environment.

So, using, well, eBPS tools in order to gather the logs and then these logs are anchored to the TPM. And, we have a functioning like similar to IMA, to Linux IMA in some way, but, well, the logs are taken from eBPS and, well, at a certain point, we also implement the structure with the verifier in order to be able to effectively verify that these logs are correct. Okay, perfect. Of course, you are doing for a different, for an attestation perspective, but, as we might guess, we may imagine, this will be, will be also a lot useful for forensic investigation, as you mentioned, to, to have some reliable, trustable logs to, or trustable component to, to investigate and to query somehow.

Okay. Any further questions? If not, thanks, a lot, I agree. Very interesting presentation, I would say. And, well, good to manage it also, the idiosyncrasies of, Mac OS X, which is always, well, pretty always the, the hardest part to, to manage. That's, first time, but sometimes not. But, yeah, if you are not in that case, then, yeah, that's it. Okay, next one. I don't know, maybe I'm, okay, if you already decided. I'm, I'm, I was afraid that I asked to, to, to fight to see who is the first one, but I see you are a lot more polite than I imagined. Uh, the fighter has already . Wonderful. thanks again.

Thanks again. Hey, you need to the microphone just to, that's nice. Okay, connect to the virtual classroom, then I will give you, I hope that the battery will last. I hope the same. Courtney. Okay. Uh, good morning everyone. Uh, my homework was about the, um, was about a forensic, uh, between the laboratory, which is essentially based on, uh, the concept of, uh, these, uh, digital twins. Um, so I have used, uh, several tools to carry out my laboratory, but, uh, we will explore them later, after a brief, um, theoretical recap of, uh, digital twins. Uh, yes. because you are sharing, yeah, this is a, a little problem.

Maybe you can, try again the first, as you did. Uh, it seems, uh, working. There is a problem. I cannot, like, change, uh, this is, see, where is the screen? On the left, in respect of this, do you know? Uh, well, I don't know, because I feel, I expected to see, everything here. Okay. Now it's, yeah, I know it's on the right, for your information. There, those are two different, uh, but how do I, I can use, uh, yeah, but it will not work, because you, are sharing this. So, you should do, on both of them. But I think, that the first, thing you did, even if, with a, with a nice, presenter view, should, should work, because, probably, you have the presenter view, of that, and then, work.

So, I would suggest to try, the first thing, the first sharing, I think, should be fine. Did, you already selected that? Yes, just now. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, I think, I think, should be fine. Did, you already selected that? Yes, just now. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, I think it, so, go there. Yeah. So, if I, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, I think it, so, I, so, if I, right, you can use, this. Okay. Let me see if, okay, it works also, on the virtual class.

Okay. Modern times are really complex. So, let's first talk about what is a digital queen. A digital queen can be seen as a visual representation of a whole system, a smaller set of components, devices, and the main thing about the digital queens is that they are kept synchronized with the assets they are replicating. So, so, in, cyber, physical and IT context, we have, um, often to talk about, uh, telemetry, meaning, uh, the, set of all the information that, uh, are gathered from, uh, sensors, um, devices, components, which, uh, uh, central, uh, entity of the, of the system. Um, now, uh, a digital queen is essentially a transposition from, um, physical asset to, uh, digital, uh, environment, uh, where telemetry, um, plays a key role, and, of course, uh, keeping the digital queen, uh, synchronized with, the asset is, um, a key, uh, feature and a key responsibility.

Now, uh, I clustered the capabilities of digital queens into, essentially, four main categories. Uh, so, we have, uh, monitoring, simulating, prediction, forecasting, projection, and, optimization. Uh, the monitoring part is, uh, uh, pretty much straightforward, meaning that, uh, um, in real time, of the replicated, uh, physical system, um, uh, through, uh, several tools. I have, here, listed a few of them. So, sensors, HTTP, and QTT, which we will see later, because it's one of the tools that I've used for my laboratory, and, um, and several more. Uh, then we have the simulation, meaning that, uh, we have, uh, the, ability, using the digital dream, uh, to operate within, uh, a virtual replication, uh, we could say, a virtual copy, but it's not, uh, the correct definition.

Um, it's more like, uh, synchronized parallel digital environment, where we can carry out simulations in order to, uh, see the result for, um, of potential, um, ideas, uh, solutions, improvements, of, uh, the system, and of the whole business, uh, that is behind. Uh, next we have the, uh, prediction, uh, projection. Here, um, machine learning models, and, uh, how to, uh, enhance this capability, meaning that, uh, the digital dream, um, um, taking decisions, um, taking decisions, or how to, uh, take, um, decisions from, uh, a human perspective. Um, of course here, um, anomaly detectors, and, uh, pipelines, uh, which we will see later, are very important in order to get, uh, reliable prediction.

And, uh, uh, effectively we have the optimization, uh, which is essentially the result of, uh, uh, simulation and, uh, predictions, the digital twin to suggest, uh, uh, further, further improvements for the, um, rapidly dated, uh, system. Okay. Uh, so, um, now I will talk about the core of my presentation, which is digital twins applied to the FPR, meaning, uh, digital forensic and incident response. Um, in general, uh, the FPR has, uh, some, uh, weak points, uh, fragilities. Uh, as we can see, um, often, uh, it is based on a fragmented visibility, meaning that, um, a log may tell a story, a sensor may tell another, and the monitoring system is, uh, telling a completely different story.

So we have, uh, this fragmented, uh, disability, which appears, um, next, we have, the, we have lots of, uh, values, uh, but, uh, these, and this in our, as logs, and several, several others, uh, alone, meaning that we don't have, we don't actually have, um, an operational context. uh, uh, we will see that, uh, these and many other, um, the, uh, weaknesses, are, uh, partially solved by, uh, standard digital means, meaning that, uh, digital means, uh, live map, the, uh, state of the replicated asset, uh, also, um, not just with mere values, but with relationships, with correlations, uh, so it is, uh, really, um, a synchronized, live, uh, representation.

Uh, next, we have, uh, context. Uh, so every value, which is, um, every doubt is, uh, set within, uh, precise and, uh, defined environment, uh, giving us a context, uh, which would be a basis for, uh, causal and, uh, causal reasoning, essentially. But, uh, here the key point is that, uh, if that means can have several improvements to the FDR, uh, the values that they offer, um, are, uh, the, here, the key question is, uh, if, uh, the values are reliable or not, or if they, in digital branches in particular, can be considered as, uh, reliable, as a, a defendable proof. And the answer is no. So, here is, here comes out the evidence problem.

Meaning that for much, uh, sorry, for many, uh, um, questions, uh, we have that the standard DD, uh, doesn't answer to all of them. Uh, meaning that, uh, it is, based on, values, uh, often just final values. So, we, um, sometimes, um, lack, uh, original, the raw values, which can define, uh, a path, from which, uh, a final value is, uh, carried out, which is essential for a forensic, uh, uh, reconstruction of events. Uh, also, uh, the lack of integrity and provenance of, uh, of data, which of course are essential, uh, in a perspective of the chain of custody, and, uh, in general in order to present valid proof, uh, in, um, um, in court.

Uh, so here is, uh, the transition between, uh, from, uh, to forensic wins. Uh, so here the core idea is to, uh, insert all these, uh, forensic, uh, capability inside a digital dream, that is, uh, designed by the very start, um, for forensics. Meaning that forensics, uh, does not have to be, uh, after the fact, um, procedure, but can be, um, um, supported by environment designed, uh, by its, um, um, very start, uh, for, uh, for forensics, uh, forensic, uh, forensic aware, environment. Uh, so here is, uh, uh, what essentially a forensic win does in action, and that's the, uh, these are the main capabilities that I have, um, enabled, uh, within my, uh, laboratory.

uh, the, uh, uh, the, the, uh, the, uh, uh, the, uh, the, uh, essentially appropriate, meaning that it is, it plays the role of an intermediary between the digital domain and the emulated sensors. Next we have, of course, to preserve the evidence, this will be done by a bash breach, which intersects the JSON payload, which I have used. Also, the raw JSON file meaning that the very initial and raw data are saved and stored before interpretation. Of course, I have associated integrity to this process, meaning that each payload metadata HTTP request is, has been subject to a hash of 156 hash. And of course, I have correlated the documentation of these caches, which can be found, which can be found in the case manifest, which is a file that we will And of course, every operation on the twin must be, must eventually update the twin, meaning that the synchronization is the core maintenance of the twin. And of course, we have a complete exposure of the forensic data. So I have created several Ditto features, where Ditto is the short form for Eclipse Ditto, which is an open source platform, which I have used in order to actually create and manage a digital twin. And eventually we have the possibility to reconstruct the whole park of events that led to an anomaly that led to an attack, which we will see as a scenario.

And yes, here I have, I put the main tools, which I used to carry out my, my laboratory. I use the Google Cloud as an operational environment. I use, of course, UConn server because of its lightweight, the Docker Composer, the Eclipse Ditto, the platform that I just talked about, together with Mosquito, and then QTT. Now, an important thing about QTT is that it is, as I said, a lightweight messaging protocol, which is based on a publicly subscribed model, meaning that when a sensor has a value, an emulated sensor, as a value to share, it publishes the value under a certain entity topic, and all those devices, which were previously subscribed to that specific topic, will receive the message and the value. The message, of course, will be intercepted by Mosquito and elaborated by the Bash Bridge.

But let's see how I carried out the, the architecture of the laboratory. So I started from simulating the sensors, so the publishing of the json, of json fails, together with their very own timestamp, et cetera. The MQTT broker, as I said, receives the message, and the very computation of the message are carried out by the forensic bridge. There is also a process of enrichment of data, meaning that that the value is not stored alone, but, as I said, with several other very useful data, such as timestamps, and other forensically usable data information. Next, we have the update of the Eclipse Ditto thing. In Eclipse Ditto, so managing a digital twin means having to do with things which are called in this way, which are essentially disinnovated sensors. And eventually, I have elaborated a minatory case, which contains the patches of all the useful information in order to enable and improve of other investigations. So I will present to you the baseline of the normal telemetry acquisition. Next, the first scenario of an anomaly, a detection of an anomaly, and eventually, a simple threat model about the replay threat model. So for the very, for the start, we have we have here a brief description of the telemetry acquisition.

So we have to do with the fresh telemetry, which are, as I said, JSON payloads, which are stored at the very raw level, meaning that we will have to store the original data, which will be the starting point for forensic investigations. And of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, the case manifest, so the description of our forensic information will be updated for each and every new value gathered from the sensors. And essentially, we have an important transformation from the raw JSON file to to a format which will be understandable for APS detail. Here, JQ, as I have shown before, was here.

Yes, here on that, we see that JQ is the one responsible for the transformation of the JSON payload into a format that would be understandable for for the digital twin. And next, though, we have, yeah, we eventually have the update of the digital twin carried out by CARL. So also, here in the normal picture of GIF4, we see that we use the CARL to update the features of the Eclipse's digital twin. So we have an anomaly detection. For anomaly detection, we have essentially six steps. I will get through them very quickly. At first, we have the acquisition of one single JSON payload, which will trigger a freezing in the operations, meaning that we will first analyze the first packet, and next we will have to do with others. We have, of course, as always, an integrity binding, so a gnash of this information. Forensic enrichment, as told before. So here, JQ doesn't only translate the JSON payload, but also enriches it with metadata and power.

With metadata and other useful information. Next, we have, between other things, meaning that the, as to the CARL command, we can update the feature of the thing, introducing a security alert feature, which will be very useful for for other forensic investigations. Also, it comes with a description. So this means that every decision taken by the digital twin can be not only reproducible, but justified. Next, we have essentially the state description of the digital twin. We have essentially the state description of the digital twin after the anomaly has been detected. And of course, we have the event ceiling, meaning that the final manifest of the case will be updated with all the of the timestamps and all the timestamps and all those information that were previously added by JQ.

So here are the main core mechanisms behind these forensic behavior. I just want to say that such capability of the anomaly detection is carried out by several, several features of the, this little thing. So we have the acquired camp, as I said before, which is essentially carried out by Mosquito, which is the broker, which I have introduced before. Next, next we have the enriching and classify. And here JQ comes into play. Next, we have the right of the alert. Here is part of the update of the digital twin. So here is a curve that provides this feature.

And it's actually, as I said, the ceiling of the, of the artifacts. Here is a simple curve model. Here is a simple curve model. Here is the main flow. So we start from the detection of a previously existing payload. So we notice this next to the cache operations, which reveals to an investigator that the same value among the cache gives has been detected. So the material is re-published. Of course, the threat model is just a simulation. So in a real attack scenario, we have that the attacker has to know and to use properly the published subscribe model that I have told you about.

Which is the main, which is the main behavior of the cache. The breach recomputes the hatches, as I said. And here comes in the data check among hatches. Next, we have another check, which is the freshness check. Here we have to consider the timestamp of the packet. We have an allowed window of time in which the packet must fit. In this case, of course, not for the case. So that second point of doubt is raised. And eventually we have a very important feature of the twin, which is that it has noticed this tackle curing. And so the twin decides on his own to refuse a project date, meaning that it reconstructs the pattern.

It reconstructs the pattern model and does not update. So here is, of course, the same, the same messages for the text and the workflow. So I will not repeat them. There are four mechanisms, pretty much as I said before, but here we have some paths. meaning that we have the main two indicators. So we check for candidates, which may be same packet and try to match among their candidates. And the check of, we are looking for all timestamps, which is a second level for two teams. And the check of, we are looking for all timestamps, which is a second level for two teams. to improve security.

So, as I said, there is a decision not to update, and in this case, the example was carried out thanks to a simulation of a temperature sensor, so that's why everyone has spoken about the temperature. And eventually, we have two bright replay alerts. There is an alert pretty much for any kind of situation. In this case, it's specifically the replay alert because of the replay model, which has been recognized. I want to stress here that even though the temperature update has not been applied, the related data has not been discarded, meaning that even if it was part of potentially a threat model of an attack occurring, the data has been preserved and has been patched and stored.

In order to make possible for forensic investigation to reconstruct the path and the sequence of facts. So, here is a brief description of the evidence model in case. The structure here is the one I've used, so there are several informations which are available for digital currency investigators. Starting from the case summary to the incident summary, if it is detected. Of course, the chain of custody is not only described, but well implemented through the data and the data and the data and the data and several other replicatable information and procedures. And of course, there is an organization for every each and every event that occurred.

Yes, so here is essentially the hierarchy in that the final fights that can be seen as forensic deliverables, meaning that we have the event packages, the case managers at a higher level, and then we have the chain of custody. Of course, these are files which contain or make reference to all the hashes that we have formed. Each and every step has been not only analyzed but stored and labeled. So, here the case is very well explained. And I will conclude with a brief explanation on how a real system implemented forensic evaluator, because this was just a small laboratory, a Google concept.

So, the tools that I have used, that you could use in order to replicate this laboratory, are well known but very simple. They are not enough to provide a secure environment for real business. So, we have essentially the main production tools in substitution to the one that I have used. So, there are, as you see, much stronger options to choose. So, I will conclude with the main takeaways. So, as I said, a standard digital twin alone does not provide a forensic-aware environment, meaning that we have to think about the digital twin, which must be designed from the very beginning for forensics.

We have introduced forensic by design as a key feature. So, a forensic-aware environment in order to help investigators during their investigations and work. So, of course, this lab I presented to you gives an operational idea, but in reality scenarios, things are pretty much different or with pretty stronger tools. So, this was just a proof of concept. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Well, I expected a comment on the last slide. It was just the credits for the work and images. Okay. I just want to say thank you to Matthew Emi, which is the author of one of the papers that inspired this work.

So, the Forensic Twin Core Ideas are presented in Forensic Twin, incorporating digital forensic requirements within a digital twin of upfront. I strongly suggest you to check this out. Okay. Thank you. Thank you again. Questions on this interesting contribution? Well, yeah, please. There is a possibility of a rollback, because you said you used a novel source tool for setting up the digital twin. So, or is it automatic, because I think that if the data are aged over some period, they automatically... Well, here the key point is that data that are related to an identified potential model are labeled as such, and as I said, the digital twin refuses to update its state, but this decision can be modified later.

But the core idea is that the information is not discarded, is not deleted, but is well inserted in a structured environment. So, and it is kept, labeled, and put in the final directory. The train of custody is updated, et cetera. Okay, good. Well, just a quick question, a quick, well, remark. What about the physical, the practical? You described the technical feasibility, and well, you actually answered a question that I like to make with one of the final slides, saying in a production environment, this can be done in that way. And that is exactly my question.

And then I just want to remark. How is practical, in your opinion, in real environment, meaning business guys would apply this kind of budget for doing that or not? In my opinion. Well, as I have personally searched, the market growth of digital twin is increasing, and it's expected to increase a lot. So, in my opinion, digital twins are an excellent idea for carrying out some kind of business of businesses, which must be very aware of any anomalies inside the infrastructure of potential threats, but this can be extended to several other businesses.

So, here, the core idea is that we can carry out simulations on the vehicle, digital replication of systems without having to interfere with actual systems. So, that's, in my opinion, in my opinion, in my opinion, meaning that we don't have to stop the actual production, we don't have to interfere with production lines, we can simulate remotely and then roll back to the actual state of things, the current state of things, thanks to the state of the synchronized state of the digital twin. So, in my opinion. It is, of course, it needs a very noticeable budget in order to be carried out. Let's, for sure, I think. I think that it is extremely useful, not just for doing business in a safe and secure way, but it's also forensically speaking, I mean, one of the finest options that I have ever seen.

So I think it's a brilliant choice for businessmen. Okay, I'm going to buy it. How much does it cost? Well, thank you. Thank you again. Well, I would say we may have a five minutes break and then see the next presentation, if you agree with that. Meanwhile, not for everyone. I think the presenter should set up since we have seen that there is a need of five minutes. That's fine. Well, perfect. I like that. Okay, we will see in five minutes. Okay, we can start again with the next presentation. Okay, good morning. I'm sorry. We still don't have the projection.

Right. Because, yeah, I can witness that a minute ago, it worked. Very strange. Good. Okay, we tried. Advanced. Okay. Well, try last time, otherwise I can use this to share.

Well, did you send me, not the presentation maybe, but the report, maybe possible? Obviously, both. Both. Okay, okay. Yes. Both. I uploaded only the report. Yeah, I think. Doesn't work, right? I don't know why, it's pretty strange, but sometimes it happens. No, you can go on with your one, with your presentation, and I will update this, meanwhile, so we have a kind of, I'll be your kind of physical twin.

Okay. Okay. Well. Very good to go. And, is it the correct version, just because it's . It is not, it is not the correct version? No. What do you think? It's just a rendering issue or . Well, nice. Let's see. Let's see. I think it is, it is in this mail. Should not. It's not in PDF. This is PDF. Ah, that is. Yeah. Well, I can. Well, I can. Where is it? Okay. Have a look.

If it is, is it different? I'm pretty sure this is the one that you sent me by, by mail. If, if it's just a rendering, maybe it's just a rendering issue. Maybe the, the font are not included in the PDF. But I think we can live with, well, I don't know. We can, I'm sorry for that. Okay. Um, well, if you want to see that on the PDF. Classroom is actually slightly better. And, uh, I brought to you, um, an anti-forensics laboratory, uh, which is completely reproducible and focused on, uh, local, uh, post-use traces.

Um, in particular, um, we will go through, um, this work line. So I will present you the tools that I selected for this laboratory. Uh, then I will explain you a bit my setup of, uh, the investigation pipeline, um, uh, which will be produced for, uh, for each study case. And then you can see here a little spoiler, which, uh, are, uh, glitch-based, uh, uh, with, uh, uh, with, uh, uh, with anti-price tools. Then we, uh, just, uh, jump to the, uh, compiles and some useful conclusions. So, uh, first of all, why, uh, I've selected these tools. Uh, well, uh, actually, uh, in my idea, uh, there was the simulator, the usage of, uh, uh, anti-price tools done performed by, uh, uh, a mid-user with no specific, uh, knowledge about, uh, about them.

So, uh, in particular, I selected these two, um, to show two different, uh, uh, approaches, um, for an individual that maybe is performing some kind of illegal activities that can be trying to clean part of the clues present on his device or trying to encrypt some of them. And, uh, in particular, we should be the benefit are very useful for doing this, uh, in particular for our generic users, um, will be, uh, well, the last points, uh, the fact that are very easy to find them are very popular on Reddit and other social, um, are user-friendly, mostly, okay, but, um, are not, uh, hard to use as many other complex tools, uh, and, uh, um, I just think that I can present directly this.

So we have the fonts here. And, uh, well, uh, I want to stress the fact that are both retweets. So for, um, well, generic parcels or in the rush experiment, uh, for, uh, well, for, um, uh, generic user, this will be the best choice, the best choice. So, um, the first one is beach victim. And, uh, well, uh, his promises are quite strong. Uh, from his side that maybe we can consult at the end of the presentation, just briefly, uh, uh, we can see that people have, uh, uh, temporary files, browser cache logs, um, and also erase the browsing logs, cookies, and save passwords, and please no digital footprint, uh, behind. And we will see about that.

And, um, so, uh, this is for the case where the user wants just to delete or try to delete some evidence from the scene locally. While Paracrypt, um, again, from his side, um, creates a bit of encrypted disk, uh, with a file, and mount it as a real disk. Also, the encryption is automatic, real-time, and transparent. Also, um, uh, there are, there is, there are additional features that we can see, uh, at the end of the presentation, uh, which makes therapy very useful also for, uh, possible extensions of this. Um, so, uh, my laboratory set up. My laboratory set up actually, uh, varied a bit from my starting area. Um, so, uh, I used, uh, this Windows PCL host with, uh, with, uh, GitHub box, and the subsequent Google to workstation was actually cloned into, uh, two other cases, which, uh, you can probably see in the images, uh, as, uh, as, uh, well, the pitch bit VM and the developer VM, just to create, uh, a coherent, uh, uh, baseline for all the cases.

Uh, I've used Kine 14 as an investigator for station, uh, mainly because it had, uh, well, uh, uh, only one features for forensic investigations. Um, and, uh, and, of course, uh, uh, oops, uh, I've used, uh, post-share folders separated, separated the originals from working output, but we would see better on the Python workflow. Um, so, um, and also in the second image, you can see that, um, originally I wanted to implement investigator VM on crown labs, on very professional crown labs, but, uh, uh, I've encountered some resistance, and we would, uh, uh, go deeper into that. Um, um, um, so, uh, in the baseline, I've placed, I've placed just to simulate a potential particular activity by a user.

Um, well, you can see that these are the main clues. You can spot here. Uh, there is actually a main folder, which name case data, folder, some, um, uh, some keywords, uh, that you can see. Also, I've added some bookmarks. Also, uh, I've performed some, some downloads and added some X device. Uh, if you, uh, can remember some of them, uh, you, you will spot them in the investigation. So, it would be also, I think, fun to see and all. Um, so, the main investigation question is, uh, can a local forensic workflow still reconstruct meaningful activity after a non-specialized user has used common active forensic tools?

And, also, most importantly, which are the real limits of these tools? because they are presented, presented pretty well in their site. But, uh, spoiler, again, uh, are not so efficient as they stated. Um, so, uh, as forensic pipeline, um, I just, uh, go, uh, pretty fast about it, just because it's not the core, but, uh, uh, we know, uh, that, uh, that, uh, what we should not work, we should work on COVID, not on the originals. Also, um, if you work with virtual machines, you have to deal with VDR. You can, uh, see here in the last image, uh, if I can zoom a little bit. Uh, well, uh, you can see that you're dealing with images of about, uh, the 12 gigabyte of, uh, of data.

Uh, and, uh, this will be meaningful from some of the problems I have covered. Also, uh, well, of course, it has to be done, the, uh, identification of the links partition, mounted, uh, always in read-only mode, with no journal recovery, and, of course, right, I'll also sign the, the evidence stream, in particular. I've used, uh, shared folder with, uh, the painting from the workflow, uh, with my Windows host. Um, okay. So, the dynamic sampling is exactly like this. These are not, um, generic, like I say images, but, um, uh, actually screenshots of, of, uh, my laboratory. So, first of all, of course, you have to preserve original, um, VDI, and you can see that actually there are, um, some more, uh, information to preserve about, uh, the virtual machine you're taking in ViproCox.

And actually, uh, it's, uh, slightly different if you use, uh, other tools for implementing ViproCox. Um, of course, regarding, uh, inventory and, uh, the ashes, which I'm not, uh, providing, uh, uh, right now because there are many files. And, uh, since, uh, you have to deal with the raw files, not the VDI, uh, as they are, uh, are quite big, and, uh, also the ashes are, are, well, quite big. Um, then, of course, create, uh, uh, a convert working hobby in raw files. Actually, you can see in the third from the image, uh, that says lucky what has been done for, for BleachMid, in the case. Um, month with only, uh, and I would say month with only, um, um, uh, each time and remember to unmount after the investigation ends.

Uh, of course, these are artifacts, and you can, um, see here, a simple script to extract the, um, the main, uh, the main information about, uh, about the raw file associated to the VDI, which should be for Paraclip. And, uh, then, of course, uh, the scenario, the scenario computers. Um, in my case, I produces the clues, so I knew what to search in general. Um, of course, in other non-simulated cases, uh, uh, for example, you don't know the, the actual keywords, but if you, if the suspect, um, is suspected to have to, um, deal with, uh, some illegal activities, precisely, you can, for example, search them as, uh, as keywords. Um, so, some operational constraints, as I was saying, and the first one is trying to, um, operate, uh, with all the VDI, and, uh, in particular, I had more than 40 Viga on, uh, on three or three space on my, for my PC and, what, uh, should be, if you can see, at the end, no space left on the device.

And, and also, I discovered that, uh, uh, in the crown labs, um, you are not allowed to, uh, transfer from SSH, uh, files, uh, in every location. You can see a mission right there. And, um, well, actually, also there is, uh, a file limit, which is around, uh, around 10 giga. In my case, I was, uh, you can see that it arrived at 78%, and then it paid. Um, okay. So, let's jump into the real core of the laboratory. So, with the Bleachbit study case, now, first of all, and this will matter also in the very fifth case, um, Bleachbit actually tried to, uh, clean browser application traces.

In particular, it's, uh, aimed, uh, on, uh, on browser traces, as we can see. Also, we use cache, cookies, and mixed and artifacts. Uh, it's not, uh, a full disk derasure, but it's just, uh, uh, well, uh, tentative to delete some, just a portion of sensitive information on the PC, trying to look at, uh, uh, uh, well, uh, forensically, sound and real evidence. Uh, but the linear activity itself can leave traces, and this is exactly what you are seeing, uh, in these images, and in particular, the first thing that Bleachbit, Bleachbit, uh, um, doesn't do, is trying to hide itself. Um, so, for example, we reconstruct, uh, the size timeline of what is used, uh, and what many useful information data, uh, just part of them you can see in this first screenshot, while in the second one, we can see how to actually use it.

Um, you can effectively select what to be it. Uh, it works on, uh, well-known patterns, and, uh, well, um, for example, you can see, uh, from, from Firefox, because it automatically, uh, detects the browser, or the browsers, where you have left some, some traces, uh, along with the dimension of the data that it is about to clean up. Uh, what you can see that, for example, backup files, cache, cookies, uh, downstorage, also the browser history, uh, site preferences, uh, are all covered by this tool. Uh, so, uh, what we can see, after, uh, some investigation, is that, which bit, did not erase, the user-created, the case that I found in the end, uh, but it's in part, uh, well, it's, as I was saying, on the browser barrier.

Uh, just, to understand, what, we are seeing, right here, um, you can focus on the last three lines, you can see that, if you remember, the, previous clues, uh, actually, we, uh, were able, to find, um, some, some keywords, and the, related, these devices, like, uh, that, uh, we have, just, made up names, but, in a, it may be, mean, with keywords. And then, just to, um, well, uh, understand fully, the next slide, we have to just make a note on basis. SKU item, which one is, one of the Firefox main databases, that contains history, because here we are doing an evidence comparison from the normal case and the pitch unit usage case and we can see that it has some evident limits in the browser traces iteration and in particular, you can see that this is the SQLite outputs which is, again, actually a database that you can hear in that were left all the traces so one of the main things of PHP is useless actually, no, because even if you can query the database, you can have some zero responses or non-responses in our case, one of them should actually have a non-output but from, if you remember, from here actually, you have to select what to erase and in my case, I intentionally avoided to delete some bookmarks just bookmarks just bookmarks well, it resulted okay, it resulted in two possible queries of basic.sqlite which is not a well-known path where if you leave some bookmarks, you can gain some additional related data and that's the web regarding the URL and some, again, some, some time stamps and also possibly some downloads made from the bookmark trace and so effectively leaving some information that you can see at the end the bookmarks were not touched this is just the focus on the problems because any other browser trace where the trace was was actually correctly deleted so let's talk about Veracrypt so this is a slightly different approach so we don't want to delete some traces but we want to increase that so maybe we want to use it later in the future but we don't want someone to to spot them to see the content of these files and information well what does Veracrypt to in order to help us with this test?

Veracrypt Veracrypt is actually creating an encrypted container file not encrypting the whole disk so again, you can maybe find this container somewhere of course in a correct forensic investigation if you just find the containers you will probably find out during the investigation where it is and by default it has the option never save history of course because Veracrypt is ok a free source tool and with many extensions we can see that later you can see something interesting in the second dimension which is how Veracrypt actually increase the container so you have to select a password ok and we will discuss what about this password this week and how it gains some randomness for protection orientation and you can see that it connected from mouse movements so it actually takes a long to complete the bar you can see there for the encourage data recommended data of randomness but actually you can stop it but just as it starts as it starts and ok so instead of cases where the information inside a container in my case well just the case data we are inserted in this container but and here are some limitations we will discuss briefly well all is inside the container is actually an open forensic information but maybe some drafts some files that you have not inserted or moved just in the are completely decoderable and also we are ignoring the of the room which is the top hd container itself which it contains along with a bath a time a science which is useful also ownership metadata and evidence that energy storage was used precisely a one now you may say okay but the history yes but if you don't put us in this case the notes of what you have done before using you can see quite straightforward that exactly this tool has been used so we are not focusing on local file traces because inside the containers are just supposed to be not recoverable however again the limitation is that the browsing artifacts were all present as you can see in the final there in the last table you can see that the normal volume is exactly the same as the one laboratory which is well actually the container is this dimension the shot one with 56 that can be used actually to try some against this container most important if you have used it just made at the moment actually these parts are becoming feasible but in my laboratory I just used well actually it should be not feasible to recover them but it becomes visible for instance object with many correlated metadata and these are just parts of the metadata and log by events that were not included in the container and just for example to help you to make a timeline so for a final comparison and conclusion we can see that Bleachbit and Berakit are actually companions they well compensate each other and work on different tools but I wanted to show that well even if there may be more many extensions of course tools that you need to pay to use may be more effective but even in their scope they have many limitations so in general just for not pressing tools rarely make the disc silent but they change what kind of elements actually and that's it ok questions thank you for this kind of glimpse of practical reality and well a nice remark of i appreciate very much one of the last comments they say use as a as a measuring staff do not use as a measuring staff only if an evidence is no longer there because maybe only the case of substitution of evidence and this is very related to what i say usually that is you must be aware as a forensic investigator about what is the effect of your actions on the context and this remark from your side is exactly along that way so but any questions please as a forensic investigator how would you hear how would you manage the very active container well actually i would try first of all i would just so that you can gain many useful metadata and also the scope of the investigation may not be to retrieve those files but just to collect the most evidence you can get from the container itself where possible i would say to try to perform some controlled attacks against it well of course we are assuming that generic users may be used as i was saying with with password and this is possible actually the in this case algorithm used by are quite effective in fact it uses case 256 and key derivation function with ashes of family so i would say pretty infeasible not feasible to retrieve them correctly but i want to say that as part of the investigation you have also to look for any evidence outside the container the information about it as i was saying for example draft files or web previously not included files or files that have been just moved into trash may contain of course information about the content set but if done correctly you can just rely on the external container that may provide also i wanted to i'm making myself questions um here we can see the actual sites of bleachbit and the statements that i put are exactly them so we can say that i want just to show you that banner provides a plausible deniability in case an adversary forces you to reveal the password of the container yes it's just something interesting plausible deniability in which it stands the container there is no signature that can lead recompense to you or to people again i would say that is true it is true only if you remember to the dogs or in the container also regarding installation which is quite trivial but again for a non-specialized user this may not be trivial and so this possibly became interesting any other question oh well i enjoyed a lot on this presentation well i okay well i appreciate a lot your presentation of course and very interesting for the remaining one i ask to be the in the in the portion time which should not exceed 20 minutes each if well i try to not abruptly interrupt you of course which is not very kind from my side in part next next Wednesday when we will have the remaining presentation i ask to be in the well in line with the expected time okay very interesting again we we will have the last chance to present to allow to everyone the possibility to present well instead from my side in the last well 30 minutes we will have some discussion something we well we we already know i will talk about anti-forensic but we addressed also in well in many in many previous lectures and also in onwards many concepts so i i will just give you a kind of schematic picture in order to to have the possibility to reason on this concept not very many new or rocket science stuff to present you we know what is anti-forensic methods that allow in some way to complicate the the work of the investigator which is try to find out and reconstruct from a logical sound and sound perspective what happened on a on a system on a context and finally present this stuff so for any of these pages of a forensic investigation from the identification to the final presentation as well we may have a different attempt to modify the work of the investigator and then conclude with a different not correct conclusion set of conclusions after the analysis and also inside the presentation also the presentation by itself might be subject of anti-forensic for example we may have a kind of pipeline that provides in an automatic way reports with some details and even the transformation for example from a kind of script like a markdown or latech or whatever that provides for example HTML pages that for some tools is the expected output for some analysis tool is the expected output also in that very phase there might be some attempt to modify the investigator work and then conclude with a different forensic conclusion this is something that we should be aware of but of course my main interest is I point out I'm pointing out different conditions the one that make more complex the previous phases like for example difficulties in analysis of a situation of a code running in memory for example to avoid the possibility to find out the presence of malware a very notable case or deletion and manipulation of evidences artifacts on the storage for example by modification of logs by secure deletion of key files of course we may have also we already encountered the availability to make network analysis more difficult through anonymization of the traffic anonymization of key details intermediate nodes that forward traffic changing key parameters like the IP address for example or of course also the flooding of information is another classical anti-forensic technique that might affect network but also logs by providing an enormous amount of different data or at least very time-consumed to discern to carefully identify and well a nice remark here is that we have nice examples we have a schema here but we are just touching the surface of anti-forensics any any well most most of the normal tools that we use for normal operation might become anti-forensic helper in case of usage to manipulate information and also there exist many other possibilities that will make difficult the work of an investigator we do not have this as a focus in our course but the transaction and responsibility thanks to cryptocurrency like typically bitcoins is a field is a context is a situation in which a forensic investigator deal deal with because most of the time for example the ransomware extortion is paid at least is asked to be paid by cryptocurrency most of the time bitcoin but not only anyway by currency that help the anonymity cryptocurrencies are very suitable for that so pretty quickly a kind of possible taxonomy that allows us to familiarize what main area might be subject of anti-forensic well data hiding is the principal concept and this might be done and we have sub-fields that are notable from a forensic perspective like artifact destruction and artifact manipulations to alter the difference between them artifact destruction basically makes clearly an artifact no longer accessible while artifact manipulation is the attempt more or less clearly most of the time with also the additional attempt to not be detected of change the information that a forensic investigator might find inside the artifacts like logs network anti-forensic we talk of very notable ones like Tor and onion routing that allow for a high degree of anonymity very clear solutions that can be associated to modification identification of identifier IP also local network one like MAC addresses the usage of virtual private network with intermediate nodes and so on we have obfuscation that many times is paired anti-forensic techniques applied to memory and life systems that try to modify or to make less distinguishable the content of the central memory in order to avoid an easy identification of a specific sequence of instructions that for example might be a signature malware if not obfuscated well memory and live system evasion also involves the possibility to modify both at user and kernel level of execution the content of operating system structures that keep track of the running processes in memory and and or modification of interaction with the system call or on the system call itself also about this we already seen in previous lectures some samples for that and well just to be more fact the examples that experimented in order to have a picture of what I meant with these definitions that are hiding notable exponents for example steganography we had steggau that multiple times encountered also in the lab nicely we may this is for example to hide data inside other other files typically multimedia one but not only we may hide the boxes that contains information at storage for example at storage level we may hide partition thanks to specific flags on a normal file system so we just set up when we create when we manage an existing partition the fact that it is hidden so of course another stuff that is useful to mention many anti-forensic techniques are not by itself very hard to find very hard to mitigate somehow the point in real life is that they can be combined in a complex way and then may be difficult to discern in respect behavior and again sometimes the point is just consume time in order to avoid a correct conclusion of a forensic investigator in time so even if you might think that this very common just the fact that hide a partition with a flag is by itself pretty easy as it is to be discovered in a forensic analysis again this might be a kind of final step of thought attack chain and this might be for example from an automatic analysis the first step may allow to be unnoticed in the first place and be identified just after days or weeks of examination so many anti-forensic techniques are pretty easy to be by itself to well to be understood and to be discovered this is not the case in real life due to the combination of them again inside that hiding set we have the possibility to encrypt volumes like for example thanks to the already mentioned veracript that allow the creation of the high volumes where a volume may be a partition but not necessarily a full storage device whatever a kind of logical unit that may be unnoticed from the examination of the file system normal metaphor then may require some further investigation this has been described very nicely in the presentation we may consider as a data handling technique also we do not touch this but it is enormous both from the applicability perspective and for the different techniques we may have the possibility to exchange data noticing the change well even the availability or not availability a bit equal to 1 so we may have a cover channel that for example involves an attacker that checks at 9 o'clock the availability or not of a web page and derives one bit each day or each hour or whatever just to mention how abstract of course this is one of the most creative fields that are interesting to be investigated and sometimes you can encounter in a forensic investigation and well this is as I said not the focus of this course but it is worth at least a mention about artifact destruction we basically encountered many many possibilities shred wiping of logs of course in modern storage devices the abuse the required may delete very quickly the data the flag minus a is all it just means all mounted the file system for example something that we did not touch very much is the fact that also the central memory the RAM behaves somehow similarly to the storage meaning that a data information may be there even after a module has been unloaded from the central memory and that's why well if we are capable to access the central memory for example even in an advanced investigation after cooling it down and recover the content in the lab there exist tools that instead write in the central memory the applied same process of secudilation of that we have seen on the storage like for example the SDMEM tools in case of Linux that go into many times might result in a destructive process and is nice just in special cases when we like to delete the content of the memory in a hurry in fact the is a kind of flag that mentions fast mode do not overwrite many times the content of the memory a few times in order to avoid reconstruction and do that in a quick way because we are in a hurry in a quick but less secure way because we are in an hurry in this moment and well there exists also this possibility in order to avoid reconstruction from RAM like we have seen with that can get a lot of process of system and processes information very helpful in the reconstruction of what happened in many different contexts about artifacts and manipulation again we have seen a lot of those techniques like basically metadata manipulation in case we are manipulating time in metadata like creation time it is so relevant that it has a name by itself which is time-stomping but basically is metadata forgery and or manipulation field and well the metadata manipulation applies to basically any digital might be applied to any digital artifact because we need metadata in order to manipulate something that otherwise would be just a bunch a very big bunch of bytes that will be very time-consuming and fully efficient to manipulate and then this is with EXEF2 this is for example as a notable example we have a lot of possibility of metadata manipulation other anti-forensics under the umbrella of artifact manipulation are of course the creation of logs to mislead the investigator we may try to forge to put into the log events that never happened like the other example with a legitimate tool which is logger that just asks to seize logs to put events in the log like system successfully updated or backup successfully done whatever a forensic investigator will go through will find and may be misleaded due to this fake information and another attempt to make complex that sometimes is failed with the creation of fake logs is to provoke an enormous amount of log creation in order to, as I mentioned, make it very difficult to bury the significant events under an enormous river of unrelevant ones and this can be done even by legitimate tools like, for example, Jmeter, which is a tool to test, to send information and usually used to test the reliability, for example, but to test an online application, for example.

And of course we may create when we modify in a factory shed in a targeted way metadata, not only modify to hide traces, we are under the umbrella of false plague in which we willingly and with full awareness modify data in order to drive to another conclusion. This is something that we find quite often sometimes in the field of APG groups that nowadays try to mint the characteristics, tools included, used by different APG groups in order to mislead investigators to other groups in order to conceal the real guilty of the real attacker of some operation.

A very simple example. Here I'm saying to my user, to my browser to claim to be a different one because I said this is something for example in Metasploit framework put this identity as a different one in order to drive to different conclusions. Obfuscation is most of the time done by malware. We have different possibilities, we have infrastructure of a packer, which is an application, most of the time legitimate one. For example, IUPX is a legitimate one that packs any kind of executable, but the executable, of course, may be a malware.

What is the schema? Here we have an application to encryption, the content, the application, so the signature cannot be identified in any way, if encrypted, and just after the execution, the running of the packer, the real application, operation, maybe the malware is decrypted and decompressed and can start to run into the system. Of course, since Packers may be, of course, depends on the context, that's why behavioral analysis came into place, which is a kind of anti-forensic technique. of course, we, in a real case, may identify some suspect action.

Maybe we should not, even if by itself a pattern is a legitimate application, if we do not help Packers in our system, the presence of a Packer might be an indicator of ongoing confirmation. and, for example, of course, this depends on the context. Well, already mentioned polymorphic, metamorphic, malware, code virtualization, and, of course, encrypted payloads, very typical anti-forensic techniques, very common and clearly understandable, because virtualization is another interesting technique, in which the point here is to have a kind of small virtual machine, like the Java 1, that translates the Java 1 from the bytecode into something executable.

This principle might be exploited in order to conceal what is present in memory and make it difficult to find out signatures of code, because we may have a small virtual machine that interprets the low-level execution assembler-like assembler-level ones to translate them into the local low-level language, and then we can write code that is hardly understandable by malware anti-virus anti-malware tools, that is interpreted by the virtual machine, and then executed locally on the actual device.

and this nice two-step approach makes much harder to analyze what is the real behavior from a static perspective of a piece of code, so a nice obfuscation technique. Network anti-forensics we already touched, then I put that here just as a kind of reminder. Also, we mentioned again some nice homework also memory and life system evasion techniques, and we also had some examples of them. Many of them are used by rootkits, the basic concept manipulation as I mentioned of central data structures that keep track of what is run inside an operating system.

We may interact with the hooks that call an application interface by intercepting normal system APIs, we may manipulate the content of the system code, we might change an application, the code that implements a module, a kernel internal system routine, then even if the API provides a wrong service, we might even inject code into memory, changing legitimate one, leaving the box changing the very content with malicious code, and this, as you may expect, is very difficult to be identified, because the external part of the application is still the legitimate one, while the behavior is no longer legitimate.

of course, we may have as anti-forensic instruments that check the context in which they are executed, for example, seeing the value inside the registers at the other level, the other registers value that may be a sign of a condition, or some specific values, for example, it's very easy to understand if we are inside a virtual machine, for example, because many times the MAC addresses, if left untouched, is of a specific type, might be a sign of a VMware instead of a virtual box condition. system parameters and malware do that, in order to identify also the fact that a process is run inside a debug condition, because in a debugger tool, because of the setup of the system of specific condition, and then might behave in a different way, if the application, the malware, most of the time, understand to be inside there.

And so, a forensic investigator try to debug, understand the behavior of an application using this tool, might be fooled by a not normal from the malware perspective behavior, in the sense that, in a normal poor user condition, would be different in respect of what the investigator is experiencing by debugging it. Okay, and about high-level goals of anti-forensics, we may have many different high-level goals, you know that. The final stuff that I want to say here for today is that anti-forensics by nature is in the condition of dual use, meaning many, many tools used by bad guys to fool forensic investigations, might be as well used in many, many legitimate conditions to help the accomplishment of natural rights of the user, like encryption for privacy inside, for example, TLS protocol like inside censorship conditions, like the application of GDP health rights and so on and so on.

So, this is something you should be aware of. But, by itself, anti-forensics techniques are not bad techniques, it depends on how they are used in practice. And this is another break in the nice and creative work of a forensic investigator understand the context and if a tool has been used in a bad or good way, in dependency of the real specific case. Questions? If not for today, thank you. This is the end for this week.
