Okay, let's start again for today. Let's continue from the place we left yesterday. We were discussing about the nice set of men at work in different points of different component of an architecture, of a digital architecture. We discussed about the classical and archetypical men in the middle that might be in the browser that may intercept cloud authentication credential like OAuth token in order to meet a different claim unauthorized access and limit a different identity and classical men mobile which is a classical target of infection that allow to full or multi-factor authentication exploiting, for example, SMS or application-specific codes sent to have installed on a smartphone. And this kind of infection can quickly intercept the code of the second factor and then full, as I said, the authentication because just one factor, just the first factor has been already compromised. That's why multi-factor is so nice and why there is such a struggle from a total perspective to intercept this the second factor. And the last point of yesterday was a focus on manned disk possible cases and here we went in much more detailed look through different possibilities that might imply the usage of TMP the folder in Linux of the folder in Windows used by an installer that can be manipulated during the installation in order to change some specific path or of documents that that can be manipulated in terms of macro insertion and in terms of image manipulation in the cases in which this image will be manipulated and used, inspected and used and possibly interpreted as a source of code. I mentioned the PDF case yesterday that can contain that might vehicular images and that can carry code inside that a PDF reader can execute. Also, I did not mention but is a viable case when an image may be temporarily stored in a temporary folder when an image may be temporarily stored in a temporary folder is manipulated then when sent through internet clients like browsers or email clients or whatever can interpret HTML inside HTTP.

So, for optimization So, for optimization sake, might also inspect go into images in order to find something useful for the user like provide metadata or a brief description in order to help the work of the user or of automatic agents that can manipulate further the images. And in case if this kind of components of clients find something executable again, may execute it and be infected for example, another subtle case, and so on. The core point of the core point of the man in the disk is the fact that seeing a seemingly inert place may well be a source of attack on the disk. Because it's a very nice place to manipulate something that goes there just for a very short moment in principle, but without proper guard avoiding modification and manipulation.

Okay, so remaining the disk is a very intriguing point for a digital forensic perspective to investigate on. And even if not very sophisticated, there is an enormous amount of case to frame the mind of a novel digital forensic investigator like we can consider the most part of the audience, the most part of the audience in this course. So, a very good example in my opinion, a set of examples in my opinion. We have, coming back to the Man at Work family, the Man in the Memory, another very important point.

Well, I usually, I started our discussion on Man at Work saying that, okay, this is something that an attacker can do, so it's good to be very well aware of the existence of these points. But we have also a different angle to look through. This might be, and is getting more and more exploited, the case in which a legitimate, meaning on, well, the police, the judge part, the investigator part, might use this kind of concept in order to acquire information during an investigation. For example, the the installation of something in memory that can intercept data full in a normal kind of cryptography is something that is exploited both from very a lot nowadays, both from the attacker side and the, let's call it legitimate side, in order to acquire information that may be most of the time encrypted. Like for example, nowadays operating systems encrypted most of the time encrypt most of the time the content of your data on your local or cloud storage, but they of course decrypt them when they get them into the central memory in order to use the data inside an app. This is strictly required due to our knowledge of encryption. It is prohibitively costly, expensive, using a program that works with kind of homomorphic or that does not need to decrypt unencrypted data in order to manipulate this. So in central memory we see all the time plain text data and see and thus this is a perfect point in order to acquire information coming from the, well, the very sensitive data to keys used for encryption and decryption. Okay, the point is we should put an agent like a file-less stealthy malware that can reside and walk completely in memory, leaving no trace on the usual places like temporary data on a drive or modification of registry and so on, and in this way can be very much undetected and be bad job like compromise sensitive data, steal precious personal information and so on or from the other side contribute significantly to find out the the guilty of of a crime. Okay, from our techie perspective is the point is there is there are a lot of available tools that tools that a strong party, well, well-equipped party can use to infect central memory and acquire information from there.

We, another point of the family is the man on the side, meaning some counterpart that does not take a too much active counterpart, too much active set of actions in the system like do not modify existing data but still can inject and observe what is happening on the system, usually a network system. And doing this kind of operation can provoke a modification in the system in what is perceived like, for example, can overload filtering system, can provoke denial of service by bandwidth consumption, can create a statistical potential perturbation in the pattern that, for example, an intrusion detection system, can see and then avoid the correct identification of anomalies in the network.

This kind of much more easy-to-do action can still have dramatic consequences in the effectiveness of the country measure in place in the system, being also a large part of internet in the worst-case scenario. And, of course, if you are a pretty strong actor, like, can be a nationwide agent, then your capacity to influence a large part of the internet, of a large network in general, might be very significant. And also managing and another big family, where, on the opposite side, the point is not to compromise the infrastructure and provoke bad consequences in the network of communication, but instead being at the end of a set of communicating parties in order to be able to get and modify the information at that point.

So, as a nice exponent of this family, I put the keylogger tools that are capable to see information injected, inserted by the user before being encrypted and, for example, communicated. Like, if I infected my smartphone or a laptop, I can see, for example, when I'm connecting to banking, to an online bank site, the credential of the user without the necessity to compromise an encrypted communication protocol like TLS. Okay? All those kinds of malicious or technically important problems allow to substantiate the fact that I, when I run an investigation, I need to be in control of the system because there are so much, so many possible ways of compromised stuff that some of them might very well have on the system from one side.

And also, nowadays, I, as a forensic investigator, might often be in the possibility to use this kind of knowledge in order to run an investigation if, for example, a suspect is still not aware of being under investigation or the extent of the investigation. is very, very common nowadays that for persons, for people waiting for a trial in a court of justice that knows to be under investigation, being infected by kind of spyware in order to acquire information on the, on the normal behavior, on the normal action of the suspect itself.

So, the suspect, even if not to be under a judgment, let's say, may be subject of an investigation, in many cases does not know the extent of this investigation, so does not suspect, for example, of having a smartphone infected by some kind of spyware that can listen every time to the microphone and send every conversation to the police department, let's say, and this is something that really happens quite often nowadays. So, a digital, a forensic investigator needs to know what these kinds of concepts in order to defend and in order to explore them, the possibility of man at work.

Coming back to the general discussion about compromise causes, another very, nowadays, wow, powerful source of damages are the attacks on the subject chain, where, okay, the scenario is, okay, I'm well-posed in terms of security, my organization is perfectly secure with any kind of even expensive countermeasures in place, but, nonetheless, I need to interact with clients, with providers, with customers, so on both sides that provide me something, or to which I provide something, I need most of the time to integrate my system, more or less, with other systems, in order to speed up, to make the operation more efficient, or even just to make my business running in some cases.

And so, when I need something from others, I need to interact with others, if the other party is not as secure as me, then this can be very well exploited by an attacker willing to damage my organization. And, well, this is pretty obvious from the perspective of infection in the software, but this can be even more dangerous and dramatic if we talk about firmware or even hardware compromise, modification, maybe just after the factory, or maybe even in the factory that produces some hardware that I'm going to use, use, or maybe during the shipment of these components. If I'm a big target, this can be, this can happen very much, and might be a very dramatic point in which a bomb can be inserted, a bug, a malicious modification can be inserted, like, well, here I mentioned the Orion, the famous Orion attack, in which the infection will spread in which the infection will spread the virus. So, it is a very nice point to enter inside the monitoring system of large corporations using the Orion network monitoring platform that was, well, reasonably secure, but that did not expect the not properly secured the updates and be infected through that point. Or, an even more dramatic case of this kind of concept in this case, was the action performed by Israel, which is a very advanced from a technical perspective state, with the infection of the Hezbollah devices used, that was used by the Hezbollah organization to communicate among them. The Israeli agents were able to intercept the device and put inside physical bombs, a small charge of capable to detonate at a single signal and then detonate them, all at the same time causing damage, even killed many Hezbollah agents. And this is a very dramatic case in which the supply chain had to infect an organization with a big, a very sophisticated and complex operation of infection in the supply chain.

In less dramatic cases, but of course something that can involve our everyday life, infection and relationship can be seen at many different levels, like even inside a single operating system, the libraries, the dependencies that are used to even to my application to work. I can have an application that misbehaved, even if I developed that application, because use libraries inside a system that might be compromised, or because it's using some kind of malicious firmware-level software installed. Okay, so this kind of attack can be very subtle, difficult to be detected and very deadly.

And well, this allow this kind of focusing on different technologies and techniques, I'll have to introduce the Advanced Persistent Threats concept, which is exactly the family, a large one, is a type of threats that are capable to exploit advanced techniques like the one I mentioned and here I mentioned some other ones, like the possibility to rent or borrow famous malware and ask for a customization or being able to customize it because can count on tens of skilled developers to provide malicious software, can be able to find out zero-day zero-day vulnerabilities that you know vulnerabilities that are not yet known and so not yet patched, or maybe just have enough money to buy zero-day vulnerabilities on the black market, is capable to use evasion techniques in order to avoid easy detectability of action, so this might involve a big strategy, a strategical wide plan, meaning maybe I plan to infect a specific device in an organization, maybe during, I don't know, a trip of an employee of an organization, an holiday of an employee, and then I'll be able to get the phone and install a malware unnoticed and wait maybe weeks that the smartphone get back to the original, to the organizational network and continue the infection.

so might have a strategically wide plan that might involve a lot of time to be run completely and or on the other side the possibility to exploit very sophisticated techniques that maybe allow to fool intrusion detection systems that allow to disable countermeasures like for example the usage of a botnet of thousands of nodes of nodes in order to overload a border, a set of border firewalls of a mid to large sized organization, for example. An advanced persistent threats agent in general is capable of such power and since it has time to run the campaign, it's very likely that a huge amount of budget is devoted to the preparation of the campaign, meaning identify targets, understand the posture, find out a lot during the reconnaissance phase of what are exposed the services, what are the nodes of the organization that have any relation, any communication outside, what are the possible nodes that are used, that uses normally a VPN to connect to the internal part of the organization network and so on. They target specific victims and before run the attack, most of the time before even being suspected of preparing an attack, they gather a lot of information of the organization to strike very strongly when the campaign will run. And this is the advanced part. There is also the persistence that is somehow related from the time perspective or on the previous one, meaning that since the campaign has the the aspiration of being long and effective, the part of the compromised note might be in place for hours, of course, but even days, but even weeks, but even months, but even in some really documented cases, years. There may be an infection ongoing for years in some advanced persistent threats documented on the records that are known for study. Like, for example, this happened in a number of cases, for example, for webcams, for webcams, surveillance webcams, that are a kind of simple device installed on a place in order to check if someone, for example, if a thief is trying to get into a private house, that are connected to internet, and so the owner of the house can check on the smartphone, if anyone is trying to get into the house, basically, but since they are connected to internet, and most many times if the user has no awareness on cyber security, the fabric, the factory, sorry, the factory the factory credentials, the default ones are left as they are from the factory, and then it can be compromised very, very easily, and then can become a a node inside a botnet. If I'm interested in any malicious action on the owner of the case, I have, as an attacker, a nice monitoring tool to see what it is.

When he or she is in the house or not, but most of the time this is done by for having another node in a botnet that can run a distributor that I would sell. or a spam campaign or something that large. And so, persistent means that the infection adopts mechanism in order to be able to control the system, but most of the time this is done by having another node in a botnet that can run a distributed denial of service, or a spam campaign, or something that large. And so, persistent means that the infection adopts mechanism in order to be not noticeable and most of the time is so subtle that can be detected according to a normal installation of an intrusion detection system, logging, monitoring stuff, and so on.

These are my involved techniques that, in fact, we should imagine, like limited consumption of bandwidth, like file-less infection in order to avoid modification on the storage of the nodes, modification or encryption of traffic in order to be not very much noticed by the monitoring system, again, and so on. Why is relevant the persistency is because of this strategically wide plan I mentioned before, because they are so sophisticated that they go to the next step during an infection might take, in order to be not noticed and be very effective on the compromission, might take hours, days, or even weeks or months before being run, before the infection is capable to reach the next step of the attack.

And well, I think that all of you might remember another notable case from a historical perspective of this behavior which was Stuxnet, for example, in which for months the Stuxnet continued to affect, in fact, and wait for the right chance to spread out in the Iranian premises, when, until a huge amount of them was reached and then started to destroy the factories, the nuclear factories, damaging dramatically, the premises. And the reason for waiting so much was just very simple, because there were so-called air-gapped protection, no connection from inside the factories and outside from a network logical perspective.

So, the chance that one technician led the infection through a USB pen took a lot of days and weeks, okay? And that's an interesting case why the persistency is needed in such kind of attack. And well, the last one of these three words is the threat, because this is something that can damage the victim to a very, very large extent, with significant hardware, software, monetary damage, up to physical damage that may involve even the life of the victims, of many victims in some cases.

Well, we can try to basically schematize the different steps of an overall APT, even if it's good to know that the APTs may have significant difference in the differences, one among the one another, because they are very sophisticated, they adapt to the context, even if the APT groups have common strategies, common style, I would say, and can be noticeable many times. But still, there are many subtle differences from one campaign to another, because they can adapt and contextualize the strategy.

So, we try to depict an average set of steps here. Well, as I mentioned, as I mentioned, we have a step zero, not mentioned here, but that is many, many times present, which is the reconnaissance, and that might take months, as I said. The understanding, without interacting directly to the organization, of the gathering of how much as possible information on the victim. If a person, we can scan habit, spy on them from a logical or even physical perspective, there may be human agents that follow the victim.

Or we may use webcam or cameras to get video information on the habit of the victim, to network espionage, like what are the active time of the victim, what are the style, the kind of posts that maybe allow us to understand the the sentiment of the sentiment of the victim. If we can study the action of the victim long enough, or for example, on social media. If, and the same, if our victim is not a person, but instead an organization, even more easily we can find information on activities, on social medias.

We may find information on the kind of people that are working there, what is some clues on the strategies, for example, looking at the job offer that they have, or any kind of indirect, but public information that we can easily access. So, we make, for example, very simple example here. If, at some point, an organization start to offer job places for experts in SNOT, for example, intrusion detection, as an intrusion detection system. This might well be an information that they use SNOT inside the organization for intrusion detection, as an intrusion detection system.

Okay. Just a very simple example, something that might happen. And we can gather plenty of this kind of information through recognizance. So, at some point, an APG group is ready to start, to really start the campaign. And then, there is the initial intrusion. After the recognizance, maybe we found out some weak chain, weak link in the chain of protection of the organization. And, as you know, even just one is more than enough. This might be an unpatched system. This might be a wrong configuration. This might be some kind of human weakness, like, well, not check carefully the centre of an email, or the tone of an email, or maybe some misspelled link inside an email, or a kind of fooling message on a group chat, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc.

There are plenty of them. Thanks to this initial step, the APG agent is inside the organization. When inside the organization, one of the first steps that is attempted is to establish a persistent, a persistent door to the organization. Like, for example, installing a backdoor on a device, on the device of the victim. If we are inside a bring your own device scenario in which the device is used, even the personal device is used, even inside the network organization. Or maybe the possibility to send an email in the name of the victim's mail agent, if it was a zero-day vulnerability of a mail agent, the initial step.

In any case, the attempt is to establish a persistent way of communication and of action from the internal, at least more internal, if it may have an organization that are organized correctly in multiple layers, but from the internal, at least partially, part of the organization. And this may also imply the installation, most of the time in case of an APG, implies the installation of some kind of malware or rootkit that can continue to act on the infected node. Then, we have two steps that might be run in parallel, most of the time, that are privileged escalation and or lateral movement.

Meaning, increasing the effectiveness, the compromise inside a specific node, this is privileged escalation, in order to increase the possibility to control the target system. For example, for example, for example, for example, for example, the initial intrusion and the foothold establishment implied the installation of a keylogger, for example, on the device. And the user just once a week runs some services as an administrator or root user inside the device. So maybe to have a privileged escalation which is acquired the root credential, the administrator credential, we have to wait for one week, we have to wait for one week, but then the keylogger is capable to get the username, password, administrator, for example, and powerful password as a password, and send this to my command and control server, to the attacker server, to the advanced persistent threat agent.

And this can lead to privileged escalation. Or another possibility is, okay, on the node, there are vulnerable services, meaning services that has known or zero-day vulnerabilities. I need to wait for one week. I need to wait for one week. I need to wait for one week. I need to wait for one week. That's my hypothesis. These services are, for example, maintenance, cleanup, backup services that run just sparsely, maybe once a day or a few times a week. Again, I need to wait for another week. Again, I need to wait that the service is run in order to run the vulnerability exploitation, and get access as another services increasing my capability to infect and interact to the node system. And those are two possible cases of privileged escalation.

From the other side, we have the so-called lateral movement, that are instead the attempt to spread out the infection to other nodes, other targets inside the organization, other nodes in a lucidly speaking way. Other nodes might also be other human beings, in some cases, if I cleverly mounted my attack. I can, due to the action, another scenario may be I have a willing side of craving now, as an effect of the first step. For example, I've been able to introduce an undercover agent inside an organization. And then, as a lateral movement, I convince, for example, another employee, a legitimate one in this case, to use a vulnerable service, for example, convincing him to access an infected link, or using a nice program that is a Trojan horse, or sending him from an internal and apparently trusted email account, some fishing maids, and so on.

Or lateral movement might just be the infection of other vulnerable services, like in the case of the Morris, or the famous Morris worm that we went through some weeks ago, that exploited bugs in the mail sending system, in order to spread out. And vulnerabilities in the configuration, using the remote execution tool, like RSH, etc., that allow authentication on the base of the IP address only. This kind of vulnerabilities can be exploited in order to spread out the infection, when I'm outside at least some level of firewalling, some of the external defense of the organization.

And, well, you might think that this kind of steps, from foothold establishment to lateral movement, can be performed iteratively many, many times, before having another infection to reach the final goal achievement. I think that sometimes might be sophisticated as well, meaning we may have an intermediate goal, like for example, precious data exfiltration, like in an espionage campaign. I might have nice intermediate result if I find out sensitive information on specific and key people in a critical position of the organization, good.

But if my goal is the destruction of the system, I should wait until, for example, my malware is capable of running out of order the automatic factory that mounts the components, or shutting down the core business, or shutting down the core business of the organization. And most of the time, APT may have many different goals in mind, intermediate and final ones, since they are very subtle campaigns. Those are the phases, from an overall perspective. Here, well, in general, a specific group, well, APT is a general concept.

In reports that you can find and study, there are of important attacks, of sophisticated, advanced and persistent traits, you may find also who is the organization that runs the campaign. And usually this is categorized with this acronym, APG, a number of two digits. In some cases, they may have also a kind of nice name, of battle name, in order to be easily identified. And also the nice name may have some significance. For example, APT 28 is a group known also as Fancy Beer, where if you find the term beer in the familiar name of the malicious group, probably is related to Russia, according to the categorization.

And Fancy Beer is, in fact, a Russian state-sponsored group. So, how has been found out this kind of information? Study the techniques and the operation performed by the group. Like, for example, artifacts examined by an investigator as Russian settings. Easy. Normally, the operation of this group are in Russian business hour, when there is sunlight in Russia, more or less. And also, the actions of this APT are explainable, are logical, in relation of support of government strategic interests.

Like, for example, attack to Ukrainian power sources, for example, Ukrainian critical systems, etc. depending on, and, of course, also depending on the specific time, if, in particular, involved in a conflict more or less explicit, or actions ongoing. And, well, this APT is a long-known one, even if still active. Now, we are close to 20 years of work. The first clear signs of activities are in 2008, even if some signs might be dated even back, but here we have some degree of certainty.

And, well, it is a very eclectic group that can attack many critical infrastructures, like aerospace, energy, defense, media, in order to provoke some Russian desirable outcome, target or support dissidents, depending if pro or versus Russian interests. The first clear signs of interest, government, of course, if enemy, or not Frank, at least, government, and so on. What kind of action? What kind of action? Action like, spin-edge, of course, cyber warfare, damaging the critical infrastructure, as I mentioned, political influence to 2016 presidential election in US.

This is a very well-known fact that is mentioned many times when there are discussions on the fact that nowadays the war and the damage can come from influence and not necessarily from specific and direct damage. And, well, according to someone, the influence was very effective at the time. Or, another very famous malware campaign is the not-pager one that was created, that is a ransomware attack, you know what is ransomware, of course, and that was originally designed for Ukrainian institutions.

As you know, since, as you know, from 2013, there is a more or less low profile or plain or explicit warfare between Ukraine and Russia. And this was one of strong actions devoted to Ukrainian institutions from Russian groups. And, well, not clear, not clear to me at least, I did not study in detail that if, after the reasonable success versus the Ukrainian institution, the not-pager spread globally by intention or by chance, like, for example, like, for example, for Stuxnet, we know that the target was just the Iranian premises, but after that spread out around the world damaging other premises, but that was very, very likely by chance, not a willing set of action.

In this case, I don't know, created, anyway, billions of damage worldwide. I don't know if, I don't know if also the poor fancy beer means some income from normal sources and then targeted different targets, or was just manipulated by someone else and used to damage and get normal, let's say, more. What is the APT28 typical behavior? Usually they target normal user devices, like desktop, laptop, mobile. They normally perform a good reconnaissance, they may last for months, and mount as first phases, typically spear or just pitching messages, directly using realistic credentials.

What is, why I need the reconnaissance to perform perfecting, because, as you should know, I need to craft correctly and realistically with specific information that might sound real by the target, and to craft, for example, mail, messages, websites, pages, pages on the web, applications in a way that do not give suspects to the victim, that can fall inside the phishing message and click on the malicious link, for example, or perform the malicious action. Most of the action. Most of the time, a component of the campaign is the registration of domains that may appear legitimate to the victim, like, for example, at some point a target was Hungarian government or Hungarian government persons.

Okay? And so, for example, it is nice, from then, to register domains like this one, gov.hu, which is just a name, but might resemble all. Or, yeah, yeah, we have gov.hu as Hungarian government, but we may register, if it is registered, this qov.hu.com, where we have .hu.com, that might resemble hu, and we have this q, that for, I'm not very focused on the reader, it might resemble the g. Okay? So, let my drive to misbehavior, because I can gov.hu, I remember that gov.hu is related to the government, and then, okay, if I'm in a hardy, stressed life, like any apical person, then, okay, I misinterpret this as a legitimate one.

Or, using instead, you have shortened services, in which I, that are very common nowadays, in which I just have a short URL with no real meaning, if I look at it, a very nice box to drive to malicious point being unnoticed. Okay? Okay? And, well, still, inside the spear phishing, I may lead to mis-action, misbehavior, but also I can send what is called a weaponized attachment, realistic file, realistic reports, realistic news, that usually I receive, maybe sent from an apparently legitimate email address, and that, again, in a stressed and very fast life, in which a government or an apical person might be involved, my experience, every day, every day, might well be, this, clicked, and then activated by a quick action.

Okay? Are you able to hear me? Okay? Are you able to hear me, even there? In the last, in the bottom, I mean, okay, I'm sorry, in this room, unfortunately, the microphone is pretty much compromised, but in the physical sense, and stop to work or to recharge most of the time. Sorry for that. I try to speak louder for the rest of the lesson. And, well, this is the starting point, as you see, the initial compromise action, according to the overall schema that we have seen. After that, APT28, fancy beer, usually, well, also developed a so-called X-Agent, which is a multifunctional malware implant capable of a lot of nice things like latex filtration, sending data on the system to the command and control server, key logging activities in order to steal a credential, is nicely engineered, nicely designed to be multi-platform.

It can run on Windows, Linux, even Android and iOS system. So, a very nice one that can nicely, well, which is a very nice exponent of malicious action, developed internally by APT28, but used also by other agents, agents, again, collaborating groups, or maybe even criminal groups that rent it for their usage. Also, it's pretty common to see a market of malware among criminal groups. And very, well, interesting to see is the fact that nowadays malware is most of the time as a kind of initial setup pages in which you can say, okay, I'm interested, for example, in running a spam campaign, a ransomware campaign.

I would like to use this part of the botnet, okay, if I need 1,000 large botnet, then I should pay, I don't know, 5,000, 50,000 euros per week. And we have this kind of customization where a criminal gang can have a kind of contract and a deal with another gang to get and have the malware customized for its own purpose, which is, again, a pretty common behavior nowadays in the criminal scene. And so, X-agent can be used by other APT groups, usually APT groups, because otherwise it's uncommon to use advanced tools to allow smaller or less sophisticated groups to use this kind of sophisticated tools.

So, probably another APT group. Coming back to APT28, after the initial access, we have a more or less long period in which they try to harvest further possibility to infect the system, leaving the keylogger in action. Acquiring information, acquiring information, the data exfiltration I mentioned before, thanks to X-agent, maybe acquisition, dumping of the central memory, and send this damp, maybe distilled in a small bunch of packets, in order to be not noticed by the intrusion detection system inside the organization, the internalization of the content of the central memory of the infected device.

And during this period, a number of different evasion techniques will be in place, like dilution of messages, as I mentioned, and encryption of them, both of them. Few messages encrypted, in order to not be noticeable, obfuscation of the code of the malware, in order to avoid that an anti-malware, an antivirus installed on a system can easily detect the presence of a malware. The usage, yes, this is an important one, of compromised certificates. Compromised certificates. So also, in the black market is very relevant, the acquisition of certificates from trusted certification authorities, not maybe of the certification authority itself, of the root certification authority, but intermediate steps that resemble, that are valid, from the from the perspective of signature verification, but still are compromised certificates.

They are very valuable stuff in the black market. Or alteration of the metadata, like timestamps not trusted, most of the time here, just modification, for example, of the timestamps related to a file, related to an application, in order to conceal the real timeframe of the real timeline of what happening inside a system. And then avoid host-based intrusion detection system identification. When there are enough information that can, well, so you imagine, for some weeks, maybe, for some days, some weeks, the infected device stays quiet, evading the detection, and gathering information.

From the key logging and from central memory interaction. And this might be... Don't you think that the only relevant information that this kind of agent can steal are encryption keys, administration credentials? Of course, of course, they are very, very important. Of course, they are very, very important. But sometimes it might be significant even the trace of the application with who the device interacts normally, in order to have a more clear map of what's inside the organization. Okay? In order to allow the company to understand what kind of system, what kind of versions, what kind of operating system version, what kind of application versions and patches are inside the organization.

So, using this allows to start the next phase, the lateral movement inside the organization, using, for example, pretty common tools like remote desktop protocols. I find out that there is a Windows 8, 7, whatever, with poorly configured credential, I can try a limited brute force, for example, on that in order to access, thanks to remote desktop protocol from remote. For example, if I find out from the content of the central memory that there is this kind of system inside the organization. Or other possible remote execution tools like Windows Management Instrumentation Command Line, PS, EXEC, SSH, etc.

Poorly, again, poorly configured SSH, maybe not using a certificate or that can accept for the first time a foreign certificate. Or maybe that use the password-based authentication with simple password. Maybe I can try to reuse a credential that I captured for another service, exploiting the very well-known weakness of human beings to reuse the same password for multiple services. The only limit is the fantasy, and APT28 has a lot of fantasy, and then, when get enough information, start to spread inside all the angle of the corner of the organization.

And any time a new node is infected, the technique is iterated again, can use evasion technique to stay quiet for some time inside a node in order to find out information, to find out credentials, to locate vulnerabilities. And so on and so on and so on and so on in a campaign that can run for, as I said, weeks or even months. And during this time, when I continuously perform data exfiltration in order to increase my knowledge of the organization, or finally to get sensitive information, the execution of the choice of industrial secrets about the position of industrial secrets, position of cyber security of a cyber critical premise, behavior and position of an APICAL director of an enemy organization, and so on and so on.

And in order to exfiltrate that, they use custom command and control communication, specifically developed by them, like the Zebra C2. And in order to continue to avoid identification, can, of course, dilute the communication. This may involve compression of exfiltrated, of being to exfiltrate data and encryption, as I mentioned. And at the end, this is not very common for APT28, which is most of the time involved in espionage, more than complete destruction of a target. But in some cases, the last step that might be useful to cover the tracks, but also to reach a specific goal, when the goal is the complete sabotage of the victim, it can run a final set of viper actions that consist in destroying the infected nodes, that at this point may be servers, key database, even backups in some cases.

Or even physical components, like in Stuxnet, this is very, very rare for fancy beer, that allow to run a component in a bad way and physically damage it. Questions? This concludes my nice journey in APT28. If not question, we can have the break right now. News is that the microphone starts to work again. I'm getting experienced with how it works. There is a position in which can be recharged slightly in an obliquous way.

Okay, so from now on, it should work during our lessons. Let's see. Okay, so another possible compromise cause, possible actor that can compromise the staff, is the system owner itself. I already mentioned that, but this is a particularly subtle case, when I identify and run an investigation versus a suspect, against a suspect. Because if technically Sari can modify the system in many ways, that can be not easy to be noticeable.

Like for example, installing modified applications. This is particularly true for open source applications, in which it's easy to to create a modified version of the same, but it's not very much harder, also for closed source, because I can reverse engineer the application and modify some parts. From a development perspective, it's not that effective, but if my purpose is just to modify a single or a limited number of applications, this is a perfectly viable solution. Or maybe even leaving the application as they are properly configured, properly coded, properly installed, whatever, the application might be fully legitimate.

Still, the system might lead to misbehave those applications. For example, due to the interaction of the different drivers, we have drivers to contact the storage, we have drivers to contact the network card, and this driver might be instructed to modify only specific patterns of data. So, for example, even if an application, for example, like, I don't know, Westshark is acquiring all the packets in principle of a network, a modified version of the network driver can, for example, filter out the packets from a specific IP address, or from a specific protocol that is involved in a malicious action, or filtering out the reading or writing operation on a specific file, or of some specific data. There are, from a technical perspective, no limits in what we can achieve.

Of course, this is my impact performance. I can see, if I check at a very high level of detail with enough time, that something behaves differently. For example, I may check that there is a mismatching amount of bytes in some places of the network stack, for example, and so on. But this is an investigation that needs to be performed by a very technical savvy investigator that exactly knows what are trying to find out, let me say. So, it's a very subtle and insidious modification of the system, installing different drives, and more or less at the same level we have the modification of system calls, the functions that the operating system provides to applications in order to interact with underlying layers, like, for example, reading or writing data on your hard drive, on the storage. Also, at this level, this can be manipulated.

And that's why we need a trusted environment, well, a trustworthy environment, in order to perform our analysis, in order to not be fooled by this kind of compromissions. This is the same thing that I already said with more specific detail, the fact that we need our box, our device, our lab, in order to perform an investigation, where no physical, no logical, no software, no firmware, not even hardware-level modifications can be inserted in the system.

Of course, you can see that there are different levels of complexity, a modification at software level, or a modification at hardware level, of course. But we should pay attention to all these steps, because even hardware-level modifications can be performed at a reasonable price. So, if I'm not going to open my laptop and examine what's inside, I may have different components in respect of the normal chipset installed in the normal factory line. And some components might be, for example, wireless antennas installed on a communication database that get some information and send signals to an outside carrier, an outside device that get the information.

And from a technical perspective, this is not overwhelmingly expensive, okay? But, of course, if we are talking about software level, this is very, very easy, and at hand for almost anyone, if in control of a device, and with even a medium-level knowledge of computer science, in that case, we can modify, for example, usual file system utilities, and this is under modified application umbrella. commands like list, copy, move, and a lot of many tens of them that allow more or less intense interaction with the file, with the system, with the files most of the time.

Or, even more seamless, change the files that are behind these commands, and also the normal operation of any app, like open or open hat version, which is more common, that is used to access to a file, or change deal to move in a file system. Even a modification of change deal to put on a different place in the file system might be disastrous in a specific scenario, unlinked in order to delete or not a file. Or, and also in this case, a lot, a lot of possible system code that are used, the network one, here I mentioned only file system level system code, because they are more clear to understand.

But, we have the same in case of access to other peripherals. For example, even if I want to, I don't know, send a document to a printer, or to a network, if I modify the driver for the printer, I can change what is printout. If I modify the network drivers, the system calls for manipulating, for creating, for example, a socket, I can send a different set of information. Any time I receive or send information from outside the bubble of the operating system, the modification of the system call can manipulate, even to a full extent, the information. And the principle is very simple, here a simple conceptual schema that allows you to understand what I am talking about.

Normally, applications run in user space, we may have a different ring depending on the system, but conceptually there are, almost always in modern operating system, a space for unprivileged application and for privileged actions. In the most simple scenario, the most simple scenario is the kernel space, the ladder, and the user space, the form in which a user program runs. When an application, a user space application needs to access specific functionality of the device, like access to the system, call a system call in order to perform the action, like write some data.

And if a system is compromised, instead of calling the original one, I can call a modified version, where that can completely replace the original or can act like a kind of system call in the middle. Meaning, for example, meaning, meaning, meaning, meaning, meaning, for example, in this case, I may have a modified version of the open system call that performs some different action and then call the original one, for example. Okay? So, apart that modification of the malicious open, the rest of the behavior, just with a slightly noticeable, decrease in the performance that in a complex system is absolutely not noticeable, behave normally, completely normally.

Or, on the opposite side, I might want to replace a system call in order to provoke a crash of the system, a denial of service in an important service of a victim. This is even more easy. This is even more easy. I can replace the original one with something that maybe, for example, randomly, why not misbehave, go to an un-existent, un-allocated memory space, reserved memory space, and then crash the system. Very easy to provoke a denial of service if I'm able to access, to compromise the system at this level. Okay? And this, again, is why I should have a fully under my control system when I start an investigation.

Or, again, on the contrary, I may want to install in a suspect some modification in order to acquire some information. Well, this is very unlikely that I go to that level in order to spy a suspect. Nowadays, police forces use specifically developed spyware that just need installation most of the time on a smartphone, maybe exploiting some zero days or some limited user interaction, and that's it. It's unlikely that the police forces go to that level. I'm talking about this here because I want you to understand how the malicious modification can happen behind the scenes.

For example, in case of Linux system, we can very easily mount an example. Thanks to the loadable kernel module, we have this concept, which is a nice one, from a design, from an operating system, architecture protective, in which we have the kernel. We have the kernel, and then an extension of the kernel modules that are not always running along the kernel itself, but they are loaded only in case of needs. Okay? And this makes the system much more modular and efficient. Okay? In Linux, we have the LKM, but this concept is absolutely general in modern operating systems.

For example, we have kernel mode driver in Windows system, etc. How? How? Or kernel extensions in macOS, etc., etc. Because to have an operating system effective is absolutely, in case of a general purpose one, is absolutely overkill, having all the functionalities running at the same time, because a specific node very likely will use, in a specific point in time, just a small fraction of them, so having all of them reading memory is just an enormous waste of resources. So any modern operating system approaches the problem in a way similar to this one. In case of LKM, what happens in principle, I'm talking in principle here, we, in order to override a system call, in principle we should develop a different version of the function, very easy, in case of open source software.

We can take the original code and modify it in the part that is relevant for us. Modify the system call table, the system call table, the system call table, that is basically an array of pointers to the address of the beginning of the system function, in order to point to our function instead of the original one, and if we do not want to substitute all the behavior but just in some specific part, we, as well, in our function, reimplement the other part of the function, in order to be not very noticeable, the fact that we are using a modified version.

And then, and of course, we can add whatever kind of functionality we want to implement, to inject in the system. Okay? Okay? And in principle, this is how it works. And here, well, a code that may give you a nice idea of what may happen at the system level. This is a realistic, a little old-fashioned piece of code that allow me to perform some kind of action like the one I was talking about.

But for me, in order to understand what you can understand from this kind of code, and also to point on a specific point of this code, I would like to have a more interactive discussion with that. And I prepared some questions on this code, and I prepared some questions on this code that I'd like to see if can be answered effectively.

And so, what's your knowledge of the stuff? Let me see if I can have both the questions and the code in the same page, let's say. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Are you... Can you read that also from the bottom? Or you can? You cannot. Yeah. The question. Yeah. Okay. So, let's go back and forth from the code. Let's see before the question, and then get back to the code. So, in your opinion, among those possible answers, what's the purpose of the example code there?

Is to intercept a system call used to open file? Is to modify the behavior of a system call? Is to create a denial of service avoiding the use of a system call or to replace the default system call with another one? What do you think? Yes, please. To modify the open system call behavior or modify the behavior of a system call. Okay. Do you agree with that?

Well, what do you think? Do you agree? Or you are not able to understand the work of this code? This is, of course, C language. Do you understand this language? Okay. Good. Now we can discuss that. I'm tempted to say, well, it's a little ambiguous, but I'm tempted to say that modify the behavior of a system call might be correct if we mean, if we mean, not the behavior of the system call itself, but the behavior that the application that the program using the system call expected, because here I'm not modifying the original open system call.

I'm changing the original system call with another one, which is my custom open here. Okay. So the effect from the perspective of an application is likely. I don't know exactly what's inside the custom open because here is not... Oh, no. Yeah. It is here. No. Yes. It's here. And yeah. Okay. I can say yes. I have the same behavior of the original one plus the print of this message in this case.

So I think it's acceptable. I'm modifying the original behavior a little. Also, I think we can consider true fact that we are replacing the default system call here. Do you agree with that? And in some sense, well, I would, again, it's a little ambiguous, intercept a system call, but I would say that this is not true because I'm just changing what is the function answered when an application asks for a system call. It's not strictly speaking. It's not strictly speaking, a run-alive interception.

That's my meaning. But again, depends on your meaning of intercept. Okay. Okay. What should be clear is the system call is a different one. Let's go in more detail. Well, some technical one in order to see if you use it with this kind of program, but probably not so much. You can see ASM linkage before the proto, the type of the function. Do you know among this option, which is the correct one, is it true that in struct that function arguments are passed in a very efficient way via CPU registers, which is very effective.

As I think you, is it true that you know that normally function parameters are passed through the stack. Do you have this kind of knowledge of how the program works? Right. Okay. Perfect. So this kind of instruction says use the registers implicitly because they are more effective, more efficient, or say use the stack for sure because I need this kind of behavior at a kernel level. Or maybe does not mean anything like that. And it's just required for defining function that replaces system calls because it's a kind of convention for system calls.

Well, what about the four one? I think for sure not. Right. Because we are in kernel space. Okay. Okay. This is for sure not applicable, not applied here. Any clue about the previous one? Probably it's too specific. Okay. Just for your information, this is something that, yeah, is true, that is used for function that replaces system calls because it is in general needed for kernel level functions. And it is because this function won't expect, this is a pretty loud observation, but conceptually allow me to conceptually say that they use the stack to pass arguments.

All the system level functions. And that means that all the system level functions. All the system level functions use this convention's details for programming this. But this is in order because in case you have to interact at system level, you may need this kind of knowledge. Okay. What is a syscall table in the code among these? I think that now we can use the logic more and more in order to answer the question. syscall table is here, for example, and here. Okay. Can you interpret? What is, among those, the meaning of the syscall table?

Well, this is not a kind of a trap question that uses the name of variables in a misleading way. This is the name that you can find in the Linux kernel. So I think you can guess what is a syscall table. Do you agree that this is correct? Right. Right. And, well, do you have a comment on this statement? Don't you think is very much correct? Okay. I agree as well. Well, I'm sorry, this is a pretty didactical example. And, oh, no, sorry.

Yeah, sorry. And in principle is correct. An old kernel might have something like this one. But nowadays, and in many systems, a direct interaction with the syscall table is avoided at all. In order to avoid system malfunctioning. So, this is correct. This is not correct. What about first and last one? First is not correct. I agree. Last one is correct. I agree as well. Good. Okay. Well, well, another detail. Print K function. Well, probably this is a boring detail.

Maybe. Well, just for my information. Many of you ever developed or interacted with kernel level modification of any system, Linux. Okay. Some of you. Okay. Some of you. Okay. Not very, not so many, right? Okay. Just for me, in order to understand your background, let's say. So, but I think that this can be guessed. What print K is, right? Even if you understand the sysyntax, I think it's pretty self-explaining. Do you agree with the first statement?

Right. Do you agree with the second one? This is a nice one. When we have to arrange a log. This is a common behavior for logging architecture. Again, this is a concept interesting for a digital forensic investigator. We should know that, and this is a very widespread concept that apply both at very high level application, if developed, well, with a little development skill down to the most deep function at kernel level. We should always say the level of sensitivity of a log in order to be able to understand what kind of messages we are examining.

If they are just information, if they are probably source of warning, still not error, but possible cause of malfunctioning. Or if they are real errors. And then, for example, we may use KernErrorConstant or KernWarning or whatever. For example, we have this kind of categorization most of the time. Info, just for informational messages, warning for possibly dangerous situations, but not so critical, let's say. Error, when we have real error and fatal in case the error is catastrophic.

So we can reconstruct, but this is absolutely normal behavior for a system administrator. We can reconstruct what happens, seeing the different log messages and the different level of criticality of these messages. So also logging operation at kernel level follows this kind of behavior. So yes, for PRINT-K, we have the possibility to specify the severity level of the information, which is, as I said, good behavior. So yes, this is true. What about this one? Not true. Right. What about this one? No. Again, normal good behavior. Okay. Well, it's not impossible that the kernel level can be visible to normal user.

But this is for sure not always possible because, well, there are sensitive messages that can be used by an attacker to compromise the system. And so it's not good to allow this kind of information leakage or on the other side, because normal user cannot act, cannot understand, cannot modify or perform any kind of action after seeing a kernel level message. So it's worthless to provide this kind of information to him or her. So the third two are correct, the last two are wrong. Oh, well, I'm afraid I'm close to the last one.

Well, so our nice discussion is gone, is coming to an end, but we have this nice question with plenty of alternatives. As you may see in the code, we have a restoring path, this one. As you may see, at some point, I get the pointer to the original function in the system, just before overwriting it with my modified function.

But at the end, with this syscall cleanup, in principle, when I exit from the module, I restore in my syscall table the original one. Why I'm doing that? Well, do you agree with that? Maybe this is a desirable behavior in many scenarios. If I'm an attacker that wants to compromise a system, get the information, get the data, achieve the goal, and then want to go away free and unnoticed, and this might be a nice behavior, not only nice in respect of the normal uses of the system, but also because I may decrease the chance to be noticed in this way.

Okay, so this one is true, in my opinion. Oh, well, what about the second one? Is it true that if I unload the module, the function code will remain active, meaning the same misbehavior, the same modified behavior will still be in place after the module is unloaded? The module here meaning, in a LKM perspective, the module with the custom open function. No, in the sense that what would happen in this case? It would happen that I would have still the address of the custom open here, but I would have read the memory used by the custom open after the unloading of the module.

So what might very likely happen is a kind of crash, because when I call open, the system tries to access to an unallocated space that might be checked. And then, according to some kernel, this might say, okay, you cannot access this one because it's unallocated. I brutally kill this process that might lead to a crash of the application, whatever. Or on the contrary, in likely older version of the kernel, I can access to the memory, but the memory will have now a kind of random content. And then I will try to execute something essentially meaningless. So again, unpredictable behavior, likely a crash. Okay, so it's not true that the custom code will remain active because the memory that executes the code is now free memory after the unloading of the module.

And well, this would be nice. Oh, well, we may have a nice discussion here. According to what I just said, this is false, right? But we might discuss why this is false. Wouldn't it be nice that a system restore automatically the original system posture after the unloading of a module? What do you think? Would be nice. In principle, maybe, yes. In principle, maybe, yes. But in practice, it is by far too complex in a so-intricated dependency system like the kernel that depends on many modules, on many functions. So if the system really would try to hypothesize what was the original status after the unloading, before the loading, to restore it after the unloading of a module, very likely will cause some errors, some inconsistencies, and some misbehavior.

And so the universally chosen strategy here, by any kernel, by any operating system nowadays, is to instead avoid too easy loading of modules. We will allow only the loading of proper modules of a system-verified piece of code that, since verified, since stable, 99% of the time will clean up the system properly and then leave a system correctly behaving, correctly functioning. We discussed that. We discussed that. And this is true, we exactly discussed that. And we also discussed, this is just another point of view of we already discussed, and of course, is false because the function, the memory for the function is not longer there.

Even if the pointer is still in the Cisco table. And, okay, if you agree with the last one, this might be possible and I'm happy for you because your life is likely very nice and your well-being is at an high level. Okay. And this is the same, basically just the same. Okay. I introduced in the last couple of minutes, just a few... Oh, well, I forgot. I thought I have some more slides.

Okay. Just this small, very small set of slides in order to show you an example of usage in the last couple of minutes. I just quickly introduced two tools among the many that we can consider. The message tool, which is a tool from a common line that many times is useful in a forensic investigation, but also from a system administrator perspective, in particular under some unique system. And for sure under the Linux different flavor.

It's pretty universally available in Linux distribution. And it's a command that allows to access system level logs, kernel level details that can be very useful in order to analyze what happened at good time. It can be very useful in order to get messages from system boot phases, from peripheral detection, from driver initialization, as well as kernel errors. In case everything is fine, you have, in any case, a huge amount of information there for the boot. For any important, any relevant actions phase at kernel level, interaction with hardware, network connection, plug-in of devices, problems in accessing USB, USB external peripherals, memory allocation even.

Any phase that involves relevant kernel action likely will put some log there. So, it's very useful to debug your system misbehavior from an administrator point of view. In all time of Linux installation, I mean 20 years ago, when install a new peripheral, install a modem to connect to internet, and there was a kind of unlimited source of pain. I need to interact with the message for our finding out what's wrong and find out how I can modify specific parameters in order to make my external modem recognizable by the system.

And any time you need to interact to understand what's wrong in the interaction between the system and external device is a very nice source of information. And also, from a forensic perspective, you can understand when, for example, a device has been mounted, when a configuration changes, when a kernel module has been loaded or unloaded. And then, this is very important for timeline reconstruction, even if just a single host, but what happens most of the time, many times, nowadays, not so often, but might happen. In order to create a timeline of a crime, cross-correlate different the message output in order to reconstruct an aggregated timeline from different devices and understand what is the set of action.

Like in the case, the hypothetical case of John we did last week, well, in that case was Windows, so different cases, but in cases like those ones, to find out traces of the behavior, what we may do is run the message and then grab the the output in order to find the output in order to find the specific information. Like for example, if I want to understand when a USB device has been connectable. Last week, in the John case, we use the prefetch concept. In case of Linux box, we may use the message to find out the same information. Okay. Another important, interesting tool that might be used to compromise, well, that can be modified in order to compromise a system is the kill function, which is, well, a pretty scary name.

Many times happen to result in this outcome, but in principle, the kill function is a way to communicate messages, information between processes in order to send signals from one process to another to say, yeah, to say terminate, okay, but also to say resume, to say, well, go and pause and many other possible information. And this can, the kill can come in terms of a shell command, kill, really, in different flavor, kill all, et cetera, et cetera, but also in terms of a system call that can be used by a system in order to send a signal to another component.

And this is essential for controlling processes and cooperate and to achieve cooperation among processes, of course, with a good amount of constraints in order to avoid that this kind of functionality can disrupt the application and the processes of another user. Okay. Okay. So. So. In general, signal sending among processes of different user is not allowed. And the alteration of the kill operation I mentioned here because this can be a nice door in order to provoke this behavior of the system. So. Privilege escalation. Privilege escalation.

Very, very typical. Persistence. If I modify a kill, maybe the system, the other application, even root level ones, can no longer interrupt my malicious software installed in the system. For example, this is common behavior for rootkits that can instruct, modify the system in order to ignore the sick kill. Or can be used to trigger another round of running of a system. Okay. So. Manipulating the kill system call might provoke a huge amount of nice behavior from an attacker perspective.

And why I'm saying that because I would like to conclude my lesson to show you how simple it is and what might be the effect of altering the kill operation. And I use the message in order to see the consequences. Okay. I'm running a specific Linux machine. If I can run it in a reasonable amount of time is loading. That's perfect. Okay.

Okay. So here. Here my system to larger data to larger. Let's restrict a little. No, it's not responding. Okay. Good. Very. Here we are. So probably I have too many applications open right now because it's very slow my interaction with that. I have here a loadable kernel module.

Let's see. Probably different. Okay. That is inside this nice C file. And what is the behavior of this one? is to modify the behavior of the kill signal, changing the original kill system call with my modified system call. So I have already created my kernel module from this code.

I run. Let me see if I'm able to run it. Well, before that, let me run my D message. I'm going to save again here with the follow option. So when new messages at the kernel level appear, they are printed out in my terminal. Then, for example, I run a Rhythmon bot, just one application. Nice application for Linux. I run it in the background. Then, let me see the process number of this. I send a 64 message, which is a generic one from the kernel perspective, not a specific one.

Someone that can be used to extend the system behavior. If I send this message to the application, what happens? The application does not manage it in any particular way. Okay. And so, it's killed, basically. Normal behavior. Now, I upload my different module at kernel level. Can you see? I can kill syscall upload. This is written by my modified kill syscall, just in order to see that something is happening. And now, I run again an application like Rhythmon Box, but maybe any application. Let me see what is the process number of this new running of Rhythmon Box, 8329.

And now, nothing happens. Just what is the effect of the modified syscall, just print on the log, SIG super 64 became root. Ideally, this would enable, in a more complex attack, a privilege escalation. The syscall also modified the behavior of the signal 63. And in case of signal 63, again, this is something that, for example, may receive a malicious software in order to run some evasion techniques, for example. Okay.

But what I like to highlight here is that now we have a compromised system that behaves differently from the normal behavior. And this is not particularly hard to achieve from a technical perspective. And this might be very well unexpected. If it might happen at the level of the kill parameter, you practically can understand that it can achieve the same result with any kind of operation. And finally, if I want to leave the system, I unload the module, and then the behavior gets back to the normal one. And my ribbon box is killed, and everything works fine without particular trace in the normal behavior of the system of the presence of the modification of the kill system call.

Of course, in this case, I have some traces in the logs that, in this case, are very highlighted, because this is the tactical example, but they may be very, very hard to find in a real scenario. Questions? For today, with this demonstration, I think we can conclude. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks Paul.
