Okay, okay guys. Do you really need the mic also behind or can you hear me? You prefer the mic? So and so, okay. Okay.

So, I wait a second just for the connection of the remote student and in the meantime I will I will ask you sorry because I made a mistake last time regarding the time so I was convinced that the opening lesson was at 8 o'clock and so sorry for having closed the lesson at 11 and not at 11.30. Now I'm fine tuned. There was a mistake with a lack of connection, lack of information with the professor but it was my fault because I read in a wrong way the calendar and then that's why I start at 8.15 and I stop at 11 and not 11.30 because I was convinced that indeed I was here at 8 am. Okay, so having said that we can start and we can continue with the with the lesson. 

Start to share the screen. So, last Friday we had an overview of what is the, I don't want to, introduction slide. It's important but it's not, there is not so many information regarding the exam. 

It's just to give you an overview of what we will do and what are the, my idea about the internet, the interconnection between law and technology. Then in this part there is a lot of notion that could be asked during the exam so as I explained the last time we have this part that is more theoretical part but then we will go on the laboratory part. We will have at least 12 hours, perhaps 15 hours, so three, four, I would say four, five lessons. 

One is already done so we have four more that are more for notion and then we will go to the laboratory part that I explained. It will be connected with the lesson of professor Razzani and it's, again, it's not involved on technical part so you will be, because this is a legal part, so it's not, it's not, I think that is, yes, no, okay, you have to wait a little bit just because it's not, it has to charge a little bit so I will raise my voice and then I will use again the mic because it's without battery. So, I was explaining that there is a strong connection between my part and professor Razzani's part but you will not be involved in technical issue but in legal issue. 

So, again, you will discuss but not as, not only, I would say, as a technical consultant because in the trial you probably will be, could be involved in this kind of matter as a technical consultant but also as attorney because, again, I would like to repeat it's important for you to be a little bit more able to use the, to practice orality, it's important for you, it's important to be able to convince in this laboratory a judge but it's just a laboratory but perhaps a professor during the exam as I explained the last lesson. So, we, I go a little bit faster to remember that this definition it's important, it's also important the classification of digital evidence especially men and the fact that it's a new idea of evidence that there is an evidence that could be autonomously created by a machine and then there is the definition of digital forensics that could be interconnected with the definition that gave you professor Razzani and the big five it's important as a lesson. Then we go to the two standards. 

Obviously, we don't have the time as we did for the person that did the cyber security and law course all the, to go in depth on the standard that is ISO especially in Europe and NIST for the US market. I think that if you are also because in a certain sense it sounds the ISO 2701 standard probably will be compulsory if you want to do any kind of activity of compliance in the cyber security field. So, it will be a standard that and it's just the beginning because now we will have the opportunity. 

I will put in contact in the next here with Mr, Mrs, sorry Dorotea De Marco that is a person of the, an officer of the data protection authority and she will explain to you, not probably to you but to the other student but anyway to the Polytechnic the importance of the standard because I understood that for you it's not clear how is important the standard in the next future. For computer forensics, I would say it's not the same that we will have in the cyber security field. Why? Why there is a big, a huge difference between the cyber security field and the computer forensics field. 

The cyber security field will go to the idea to make an harmonization within all the situations that are completely different. You can enter in a company or a public office where the level of cyber security is really high. There is a function like CISO or other function in that institution or a company that are absolutely expert. 

At the same time you can enter in a also not big company but I would say small, I would say medium enterprise company not small obviously but that they don't have any kind of culture of cyber security because there is a big confusion especially for the entrepreneur between the role of an IT manager and the role of a CISO. So this is the reason why we need more harmonization. When we talk about computer forensics, the first thing is that there is a huge, you will discover this during this course, between the field of criminal activity where there is a good competence, I would say not high, but good competence on computer forensics. 

Then there is a civil side that could create a lot of, you can go from a discussion between an husband and a wife, a family law activity that create a lot of interesting, I would say, computer forensics or digital forensics dilemma but at the same time it's not the same issue rather than a main in the middle attack so you have to discover how this attack happened. So it's really difficult to create standardization like the 2701. And then you have another field that is really important, so criminal, civil and corporate forensics. 

Corporate forensics is when there is no, I say, a situation where there is a legal aspect that you have to gather to a court so you don't have to gather an evidence to go immediately to a court that could be civil or criminal. It's more related to some, I would say, labor law issue but also a sort of situation where you have to keep in an internal investigation activity. So all the field of audit, internal investigation, it's especially in the next future it will, and also now, it happens that you have a lot of situations in a company that don't go to a court. 

Why? Because now, not only in Italy, I would say in Europe and in other countries, perhaps not in the United States but I can tell you for sure, in the United States for another reason, but in Europe because we don't trust too much to the court so the idea to start a civil or criminal proceeding it's not a fascinating idea for a company. It's better to solve the issue inside the company. So that's why the corporate forensics is really important. 

We will go in depth of this field to understand how it works. So I was explaining this because you have to distinguish between civil forensics, criminal forensics, corporate forensics and as this kind of field are completely different, it's really difficult to create a standard. So this is the point that is really, oh sorry, this is a breach, okay. 

It's really difficult to do this. But anyway, this does not mean that is less important. If you want to go in the computer forensics field or digital forensics field, obviously this kind of standard are really important.

And in a certain sense, there is a common sense regarding the principle. So I mentioned the big pillar of Council of Europe. Professor Razzeni already explained the digital forensics procedure.

I don't know how, if not, it will be in the next lesson. And also here you will have this kind of definition. So just to help you for the exam first and then to understand for your future two different issue. 

For the exam, I think that also for me, it's not absolutely important what type of definition and what type of procedure you will use when you describe digital forensics. So it does not matter. If you want to use, for example, the NIST standard that is collection, examination, analysing, reporting, really simple. 

It's okay for me. And you have obviously also to ask to Professor Razzeni, but I'm sure that he will appreciate this point because basically all these stuff are the same. Or the 2701 that is also important. 

And this is for the exam. For your future, obviously NIST standard apps, they have a role only in United States. And United States, there is a culture of computer forensics because there is a lot of budget, I would say. 

I forget to tell you this before, that we don't have in Italy or in Europe or in other countries. I think that is a unique situation. Probably, but not at the same level also in UK. 

You have this kind of potentiality that means that when you have to do a forensics activity, you will discover or perhaps you already know that you need a lot of budget because you need a lot of time and you need a lot of computing capacity and you need a lot of tools to do this kind of activity, especially when we talk about mobile forensics. So when you have to do not with a laptop, that is in a certain sense simple to do this kind of activity. But when you have to do with a mobile phone, especially an iPhone, you have to use a tool that is a software, but not only software. 

It is also an hardware that is OOFED. Perhaps you have already heard about OOFED. That is a specific tool to do activity on mobile phone that's always changing. 

So you have always to update this kind of furniture and tools. So you have to spend a lot of money to do this kind of activity. So it's a really cost effective activity. 

So only United States, you have this kind of opportunity to do in a proper way a digital forensics activity without any budget problem, I would say. But at the same time, the justice in United States is not for all the people. You have to understand this. 

I lived in United States for two years, but not because I lived, because it's something that is pretty clear. So if you want to start a criminal or civil procedure, you have to spend a lot of money with a law form and a lot of money with all the legal stuff that is connected with the case. So the forensics activity, for example, it's one of the most costly effective activity that you have to do in United States. 

And you have also to understand an important principle that distinguish the Italian and the European culture, not all the European culture, but I would say 70, 80% of the European states are as this kind of principle with the United States approach that is in Italy, in Europe, any kind of legal activity that you have to do in the court and any kind of criminal activity, forget the legal activity, criminal activity, criminal side, it's compulsory. What does it mean? It means that if you lose your wallet, then you go to the police and you do the charge the police and the police is obliged to do an investigation. Even if you lose your mobile, even in any situation, there is an obligation for the police to do an investigation. 

What does it mean? That the police officer should open a file, start an investigation, demonstrating that it's quite impossible to find the person that steal my mobile phone, for example, and then he has to do some piece of paper to close the investigation. This is really important to understand how it works and what is the difference, because it has an impact in any kind of activity, this kind of different procedure. So again, if I think that you make today, for example, I talk with, what is your name? I talk with Stefano and Stefano says some bad words to me and then I start an investigation, but it doesn't say that there was a misunderstanding between Stefano and I, but I have the possibility to go to the police and start a criminal action against Stefano and the policeman has the duty to hear Stefano and to understand what happened and then he will make an evaluation or dismiss the case or start a criminal action against Stefano.

In the United States, the policeman has the possibility to evaluate case by case if the case should start or not. So if you transpose this situation in the United States, the policeman asks to the prosecutor and says, okay, I see that there is this situation where Stefano probably used a bad word to Professor Vacciago, but I think that it was a misunderstanding, so we can not start any kind of investigation. And then the prosecutor says, okay, yes, and the investigation do not start. 

So perhaps for you it's a matter of a little question, but it's an enormous question because the idea that we have in Italy and in Europe, that means that you have to, there is no option for the prosecutor to decide if the investigation can start or not. There is no option. The investigation should start. 

And again, what happened that if I disagree with the decision of the prosecutor, because the prosecutor said Stefano was not saying bad word, there was a misunderstanding between you and Stefano, and I can have the possibility to ask to an attorney to make an opposition to the decision of the prosecutor and start to have an hearing with the judge that will decide if the prosecutor is right or not regarding the problem within Stefano and I. You understand what I mean? So there is an incredible legal activity and bureaucratic activity that can be done because any citizen could start a criminal action and have the right to have an investigation. So the right to have an investigation that is a fundamental right, a constitutional right, it has a cost and create a lot of trouble with the justice, but create a sort of potentiality for any kind of citizen to start an investigation because it does not make any difference if you ask to the best attorney to start a criminal action against Stefano, or you can autonomously go to the police and explain the problem. There is no difference.

They have to start an investigation. In the United States, what is the consequences of the fact that there is no obligation to start a criminal investigation? The fact that they start the criminal investigation only if you prepare an incredible case with the best law form and the best forensics activity that gives all the evidence. So in the United States, you can have the possibility to start an action against Stefano only if there is a CCTV that makes all the recording about our conversation. 

Then there is an incredible charge made by Harvey Specter, for the person that knows. That's why there is the movie series, because the idea that you have in the United States is that it's a luxury to start a criminal action. It's not a right.

It's a luxury. There is a huge difference. When you think about how it works in democracy, what is your opinion? It can change because if you want to have an efficient services, you have to consider this kind of fundamental right as something that you have to pay.

As much as you pay, as much as you can have the services. Again, how it works in the health system in the United States is the same. It's not for every citizen, only for the citizens that pay money, that have insurance. 

So they have the opportunity to have this kind of services. If you don't have money, you cannot have any kind of medical assistance or really little medical assistance, just the minimal for the decency, but only this. But if you have money, you can have this kind of opportunity. 

So it's a different system. I don't want to judge what is the best because to tell you the truth, you have a lot of trouble in Italy with the justice system. Today, I'm in a bad habit. 

I had some problems with my family and then I want to start a criminal action against Stefano and I have this kind of right. So this is the bad part of the story when there is this opportunity for everyone. But at the same time, there is no difference between the people and citizens that have money rather than people that do not have money. 

So you have the same right independently of what is your account in the bank. In the United States, it's not the same. Why I explain this principle? Because this is the difference why computer forensics is really huge in the United States and there is a wonderful culture of digital forensics in the United States because digital forensics is really costly, effective, especially in a world that is a digital world where we have a lot of data, a lot of device. 

Just 20 years ago, you could have one, two device. Now we have, I have two watches. I'm a crazy man. 

I know. So I think that this is here just you have a lot of evidences just in the two watches. So and this is the reason why it's really cost effective. 

So this is the idea and the reason why also it's my suggestion for your future, not for the exam, is to evaluate the importance of this kind of certification, because any certification costs a lot of money, not only because you have to start with the certification, but you have to keep the certification every year. You have to pay a little tax to have the certification valid. For example, I did the certification on 2701, but then I stopped to pay since 2017 because it was important for me to have that kind of certification. 

But I don't need this kind of I don't do the any kind of 2701 audit. I have the 17 of the certification for data protection officer and I need to keep this certification. So I have to pay every single year a lot of money. 

So when you have to decide in the future that where the certification are really important, if you especially if you want to work on the compliance field for the crazy guys and girls that want to do this kind of activity, you have to consider very well if it's a good idea or not to keep the certification. For the computer forensics, for the reason that I explained, I hope well, it's not so important, I would say, unfortunately, for the time being, perhaps something will change in the next future. I hope to do that and then I will have a different opinion, but I have to give you advice for what I know now. 

So anyway, the certification is 27037. If you want to have more information, I can help you and you can send me an email and we can go there. Having said that, so I will go to another part of the story, that is the identification of the suspect.

The problem is that we can have a lot of ways to obtain this kind of information. The first, as we discussed also the last Friday, is the OSINT activity. I think that everyone knows what is OSINT, open source intelligence, it means. 

I also explained, but then we will go today probably in depth of why it is legal to do OSINT and what are the limits to do OSINT, because it's a delicate point. Then there is another part of the story, that the investigation used the court system to compel the ISP, that is the internet service provider, to reveal a physical location that correspond likely to the source of network IP addresses. So now we will have to understand a tricky part of the story, that is from one side the data retention directive, that is really important and it's really important in Europe, in any single country of Europe. 

It's a long, long story. And then on the other side, we have to understand why in a certain sense it's not so important, the data retention directive. I will spoil the final view, because basically you know, I think that you know very well, that there is a plenty opportunity, a lot of opportunity to hide your IP address.

And when you are a criminal, you probably hide your IP address. So especially from a technical side, it means that all this story that I will explain to you about data retention, it's not useful, because you say yes, but I can use Tor. How many of you know Tor? Okay, perfect. 

And then you can hide your IP address. But I have to also explain another part of the story, that is my experience. Theoretically, you can hide your IP address, but practically, and it's really true. 

Also, in the most important case, perhaps I wanted to start, but I know that you know very well, the Ross Hulbrich case, the dark web case. If you don't know that case, I will mention in the next lesson, next Friday. But also Ross Hulbrich, for me, is one of the most interesting cyber criminals that I ever read. 

Obviously, I never met him. I think that also he made a mistake. So in a lot of cases, also in a case that I follow in my professional activity, also a lot of cracker or cyber criminal, whatever, also ethical hacker, made this kind of mistake. 

Because it's when you have to do this kind of activity, perhaps, and you use a different device, another issue, and you use different connection, it could happen that you made this mistake. Again, it's a long...




Because probably if you have 1000 of IP address, perhaps just two or three are not anonymous, but it happens, it happens a lot of time. I know that perhaps for you it's crazy, but it happens. But we have to admit at the same time that when we talk about IP address, we talk about something that it's absolutely something that you can anonymize in a really simple way.

Having said that in 2006, after some terrorist attacks, you have to remember that in 2001, we had also the most important terrorist attack in United States, Twin Towers and whatever. So it started the idea that we have to figure out to find a solution to block this kind of digital activity that happened between terrorists and between cyber criminal. And they decided to create this data retention activity.

What is data retention? It means that all the provider, and when I say provider, I mean two important part. Please hear me because it's important. From one side there is a network provider and on the other side there is internet service provider.

So the network provider, what is a network provider? Tell me, tell me, yes. For me it's difficult to distinguish a network provider from an internet service provider. Why? Because, for example, internet service provider of tier one, because we know that there are tier one, tier two and three.

The distinction, for example, from tier one and tier two is that the tier one has all the infrastructure. So for me, for example, a network provider is an internet service provider of tier one. Okay, correct.

It's a wonderful definition. Can you explain me what for you a name of an Italian network provider? Telecom, for now, is TIM. Perfect, TIM is a network provider.

And only internet service provider. Only internet service provider. So also TIM is an- Yes, it's true.

And that's why your answer was really precise. But it's really easy to identify an only internet service provider. Yes, yes.

No STING service provider. No, can you repeat? OSTING service provider. Because the internet service provider could be in a legal definition, OSTING service provider, or only access service provider.

But OSTING is the provider that give you the opportunity to host your data without giving, without giving any network activity. So what is for you an OSTING service provider? The, for example, Amoeba, that give me the- Wonderful. One.

Okay. Amoeba is really Italian one. We could say Google, it's the same, just for the person that are not Italian.

Because TIM is really well known, but perhaps Amoeba a little bit less. So this is the distinction between a network. But please, the answer, your name? Pierfrancesco.

Pierfrancesco, yes. Pierfrancesco gave is perfect. But we have to be simple in this situation.

So network, only the connection, OSTING, only the data, okay? Internet service provider is the category. Inside the internet service provider, basically what is important for me is the OSTING service provider. Because this is the general idea.

So now all the network service provider and the OSTING service provider has the duty to store all the IP address and all the connection for a period of at least six months, maximum 24 months. And this is the general principle of the data retention direct. Then to rise a lot of mess.

What does it means? That there is a preventive activity. For example, in Italy, it's five years now, five years. And then I explain why it's a lot more than 24 months.

So all the activity that we do online are stored by the network service provider for the judicial authority. So when you go online and you go, nobody of you go on Pornhub. I know very well that is forbidden for you for an ethical and legal reason.

But when you go there, all the team, we mentioned team, Vodafone, whatever, has the duty to track your activity online for a period of in Italy, five years. So if I want to see what Francesco saw online four years ago I have the possibility to do that from a technical point of view. So do you think that this kind of preventive seizure is correct or not, Francesco? Depends on what side we are talking about because if you're talking about from the side of the internet service provider it's a huge effort because how many sites are we using, are we using- No, Francesco, sorry if I interrupt you.

This is a part for Professor Azzani. You're talking with me about legal issue. It's not the effort.

I know that there is a lot of mess for the technical side. Yes, the answer is yes. But we are discussing if it's correct or not this kind of activity.

For me, 80% is correct because so we have the possibility but on the other side, all the citizens have their privacy violated. So potentially this could be present in this problem for my understanding. Okay, Francesco, good answer.

So the point is there is a huge discussion between the fact that in Europe about this directive because some of the citizens and some obviously of nation have the opinion that lastly said Francesco that is it's not from a constitutional point of view corrected that they analyze my, they preventive analyze. So I'm not a criminal. So I don't want to be analyzed.

So you have the possibility to log my IP address but just when it started criminal investigation when I have the suspect that Stefano today is the day of Stefano is a criminal. But on the other side, the problem is that when you talk to a law enforcement officer, he will say, yes, but when I started the investigation it's too late. So the advantage to have this kind of storage is that I can go in the past and see what was the potential criminal activity made by Stefano.

So this is the tension between all the member states in Europe after this directive. And there was a huge discussion from 2006 up to now. So the situation is that it's a crazy and really strange situation because in Italy we also go in a direction that as there is the terrorist problem they say 24 months is not enough.

So we have to do five years of retention. In Germany, it's completely different. There is no retention because they declare in constitutional, sorry, I was going to tell you so you will go to Berlin tomorrow.

No, I'm joking. So basically if you go to Germany you do not have any kind of tracking of your activity because they declare in constitutional the data retention directive in 2010. In Ireland is the same.

So it's not constitutional and Romani is the same. So you have a lot of, it's not important to remember this nation obviously. You have just to, I did the idea that in some European nation they declare not constitutional this law.

In other member states like Italy they declare constitutional this law because it's not simple to have a clear idea because on one side there is a balance of interest. On one side you have to fight against terrorism. You have to fight against criminal activity.

On the other side, you have to respect privacy. You will see, please. They do the investigation.

They do the investigation only. They keep the data only after the starting of the investigation. So what is the technical solution is that we have the activity of freezing.

What is freezing is to ask to the provider to freeze the data because also start an investigation it's activity that takes a lot of time. So we'd say at least two, three weeks. So if you have the suspect again that Stefano is a criminal, you call immediately you are a policeman and you call the internet service provider or the network provider, both, sorry.

You have to call the internet service provider because the network service provider is a consequences of the internet service provider. Then I will explain for everybody but it's really simple to understand why there is this situation. So you have to call the internet service provider and say, you have to freeze the data, keep in your server, start to log this data.

And then I will arrive with a warrant with the order and then I can give it. But the problem is that in Italy, I can go five years behind of the life of Stefano. In Germany, I can go only from the moment that I asked the freezing of the data.

Do you understand that? So I don't know if this is a solution because you asked me how they solve. I don't think that this is, from a law enforcement perspective is not a solution because it's really important to go behind two, three years. Not two, three years, it's too much.

At least one year, one year and then six months. This is really good. Yes.

I was working, for example, with Boran through data retention. I was thinking about giving private data to Google Maps timeline, for example. I can ask Google to track my movements around the world.

And is this related to data retention that could be used also for legal? No, because we have to distinguish between your agreement that is a private agreement between Google and what is the law. So the law enforcement cannot do whatever you want. And this is the principle of digital forensics, the principle of any kind of discourse.

So you have to study this stupid law because you can know what is admissible and what is not admissible for the law enforcement. So if the law in Italy says that you can have information of five years, my answer is yes, they can ask you the information of your last five years of tracking of your activity. But if you are a German citizen and the investigation start in Germany, they cannot ask this information to Google because they don't have the power to do that.

So if they know that there is this kind of logging, they will have to find other solution if they are able to do to take this information, but they cannot ask to Google this information. They're not entitled to ask to Google, okay? So thanks for your question because this is the real tricky issue. It's a mess because you have to see the situation not only from, we could say, law enforcement side, but also for the provider side.

And not when we talk about network provider like team that is more geolocalized or geolocated because normally the network provider is a state provider. You can have also international network provider, as you know, but basically legal entity for any state. But when you talk about Google, like the last question, you have to consider that Google has to remember all the huge difference that you have in Europe and around the world because the data retention law is a law that is applicable in all the world.

We cannot stay three hours to know or to analyze every single state in the world, but just to give you a flavor, in Australia, there is a really strict activity regarding data retention law. So they want a lot of data, more than two years, because in Australia, there is a strong activity. In other Asian country, there is no this kind of activity.

I was involved in 2010 and this is the reason why, not only the reason, one of the formal reason why Google decided not to give service more in China, because what happened, Google and Yahoo were present in China since 2010. And in 2008, the China government asked to Yahoo some IP address and Yahoo gave this address. And these are the person that use this other app were bloggers that was against the regime, was against the government of China Republic.

And this person for the Chinese law were killed because it's a crime to open a really serious crime, to open a blog in China, criticizing the government. So after this situation, no, no, it's not a question, oh, it's a question. Okay, I finish and then I give you the word.

After this situation, Google decided not to give the services to China, then the other reason is that was not from an economic and commercial perspective, a good idea to start an activity in China because there was a lot of competitor in China. But this is another story, from a formal point of view, Google decided because they asked the IP address, because the China government asked IP address and they disagree about the fact that if you open a blog in China, you can be killed, obviously, a blog against the China government, please. I don't understand why this site, for example, I remember the number of the cases, what is it? Metadata, metadata, no.

Okay, don't make confusion between forensics and data protection. We are not discussing about GDPR, we are discussing about bad activity. So one thing is to keep data to control the employee okay, this could be legal upon certain measure, especially in Italy, the article four of the labor statute that is really important for you also to read.

So please go to read the article four of the labor state. If you are interested, it's not for the exam, but because if you are interested about the limit of the potential control of the employee, but this is, and this is the reason why in Lombardia, it happens that the data protection authority made a sanction against the Lombardia region because they keep data for a period that was not compliant with the data protection measure, okay. But one thing is to keep data, we are not discussing about company, we are discussing about internet service provider and network provider.

So it's not the Lombardia keep data and keep information, but is not an internet service provider, is not a network provider, is an institution, a public institution and is public institution and company, they don't have the possibility to keep data unless a strict retention period that it works for security reason, cyber security reason. So you can have the possibility to have the log on six months, this is basically the general retention of the company, but only for security reason, not to control the employee, you understand? And this is the retention when we talk about data retention on the GDPR and for the person that for the student that also did the cyber security law course, you don't have to make, yes, it's the same things, you have to retain data, but there is an enormous huge difference between what is privacy and what is criminal activity. Indeed, just to be clear for your question that is important, you have, if you want to go in depth, you can also see the article 132 of the privacy code that is the legislative decree 196 of 2003, you always see this decrease because in any kind of privacy notice, you always sign is the article, sorry, is the decree, the famous decree 196 of 2003.

The article 132 clarify your question because it clarified that if you want to have IP address from a network or a hosting provider, you have to ask the authorization of a prosecutor and the judge only for serious crime, okay? You understand what I mean? So it's delicate because you can also say, also, for example, just to clarify for the end, Vodafone, for example, as a, yes, it's a network provider, but Vodafone is also a company and they have to respect the privacy of their employee. So even if you are a network, do you understand what I mean? So distinguish between the role of network and hosting provider and the role of the company with the employee, because we are discussing only about crime and only about this kind of data, the retention of this kind of data. So again, the problem is that we have a lot of differences around the world, a lot of discussion and what is the tricky and the sad point, I would say more than tricky, is the fact that, again, the real criminal, you store.

So at the very end, you can probably find the IP address of Stefano because he sent a bad word on Facebook. So if you, because this is probably, when you have a lot of discussion, all the illegal activity that is made online, defamation and what this kind of stuff, I say a bad word to a person on a social and with this kind of stuff. In this case, you can find what is the person because normally it's not a cyber criminal, it's not an hacker, it's just a person that go online and say, so you can have this kind of information.

But when you have to discover a ransomware attack and the person behind the ransomware attack, really serious ransomware attack, I can assure to you that it's quite impossible that that kind of criminal made a mistake. Even if in a situation where you have a lot of IP, probably you can hope that this person made a mistake, but it's really difficult. So a long discussion, and I don't know if it works, this discussion, because it's true that even if you can solve a case, it's important.

But when you have, and coming back to your first answer, if you remember, Francesco, now, I will take your point. So a lot of effort from a technical side to store the data, a lot of money, a lot of, also you have to keep in a really safe way because imagine what can happen if you have a data breach on all this kind of IP address. And 99% of this information that you stored are not useful for the criminal side, but potentially only to violate privacy.

But you have to consider that 1%. But it's important that you know that now the only possibility that we have to fight cyber crime is if we store this kind of data. And what is the other big issue that we did in the last 15 years? And I had the fortune to be involved in one of these big discussion.

And the big discussion was against Tor and against the possibility to create, to sanction any kind of proxy, any kind of activity that anonymize your IP address. And this discussion now, you have all the advertising of NordVPN. So I know that for you is crazy, but it goes for, it went for a lot of year.

And then I was at the Interpol convention in 2012. And in that convention, at the very end, there was this discussion between Interpol and the Tor project. And at the end of the discussion, they accept the fact that it was quite impossible to avoid the possibility from a technical standpoint to anonymize the IP address.

So in my view, after 2012, we lost this opportunity to give a value to an IP address. And another discussion that was really, that is also present now, and this is the, in this sense, it creates a lot of worry for me, but it is the obligation from a worldwide perspective. And I also am interested about your opinion about this, to have the connection only if you identify your person.

That means that you need your identity card to have an internet connection. So it's connected with your identity. You can imagine your device.

So you put your identity card, your ID, and only if you're ID, you can enter in a connection. That obviously, it could also be, we could say there is a lot, the criminal can also have a lot of way to circumvent this kind of activity, but in a certain sense, create a lot of certainty about the real identity of the person. But here, there is also a big discussion between the freedom of internet, the idea that the internet was at the very end, at the very beginning, sorry.

Yes, a military project, but then with ARPANET, it become an academic project. So the idea of freedom was at the protocol, the HTTP protocol is the idea of freedom. And on the other side, there is the idea to say that now every single information pass through internet and the general idea, the idea of freedom that we had 30 years ago, now is not the same.

And this is the discussion that we have regarding the possibility to identify the suspect. So having said that, what is the real world? The real world is the activity that Google, every single day did. And if you remember what I described about myself, I did this since 2007 up to 2014.

So the idea to cooperate between the internet service provider and the law enforcement. Why it's important the internet service provider? Because obviously you can know from a technical standpoint, if it's not clear, perhaps some of you can explain better than I, but it's really simple for me because you see that there is an information, that there is an email, because you can have this kind of information, even if it's an anonymous email. And then from that email, that probably is a Gmail, you can have the IP address and from the IP address, you can have the possibility to identify the network provider.

And then you ask to the network provider who is the owner of that kind of telephone number or any kind of connection that you have with the network provider. So this is the way to identify the person. First internet service provider, Gmail is a classical way to do that.

And then the network service provider. But now it become, if you understand well, the complexity of data retention. So the idea that some states decided not to apply the data retention.

Other states decided to do that kind of activity. And if you understand also the idea of the technical complexity of the data retention, now we have to anticipate the third and most important problem that it will be asked during the exam, this issue that is the jurisdiction problem. Because if you ask to a service provider any information, coming back to Google, Google is the perfect example.

We have to understand that you don't make, when you do, your name, Paolo, explain about the private agreement that he did with Google, accepting that it can be tracked for a certain period of time. But when you do this kind of agreement, you can go to personal service, because it's not, there is no physical person that give you the contract, obviously. But in the terms of service, you can see what are the terms of that kind of agreement that you do with this kind of service provider.

Nobody of us.





read what is written, but it's really interesting, especially with GPT or anyway, any kind of generative intelligence, you can summarize that service and you will discover a lot of interesting and tricky issue in the terms of services with this kind of provider. When you do this activity, you have to see the first line that is, what is the entity? I will have this kind of agreement, what kind of entity? Italian entity, European entity, US entity. Paolo, for you, what is the entity? You are an Italian person, what is the, when you do this kind of agreement with Google, you will do with Google Italy, Google Ireland or Google US, Google Inc? Both for you, because it's like a theory, that kind of theory, because there is Google US, it's the main global container, so I need to have some sort of agreement with them. 

And then since Google has some sort of dependencies in Italy, Europe and country, I have also a kind of separate agreement with them, complying with the local rules and regulations. Not, because yes, in a certain sense it's not wrong your answer, but it's different, because at the beginning, since 2018, you had only an agreement with Google Inc. Why? Because they are not interested to do with you, Paolo, an agreement with the Google Italy entity. 

Why you have the Google Italy entity? Why? Because you have a Google Italy entity, it makes more than 1.5 billion euro of revenue every year, but because they make an agreement, not with you Paolo, but with Prada, with Armani, with all the company that may give money to Google for the advertising. So, the Google entity, the Italian Google entity, make this kind of agreement and for tax purposes, and this is the situation, so the Italian person working, the Italian employee, sorry, of Google Italy, working for Google Ireland, because why all this kind of contracts are made with Google Ireland? Because they pay less tax in Ireland. So, the situation is, when Google Italy are only, there is only an activity of intermediation, and this is a huge tax issue, but it's not, but just to give you the complexity. 

So, when you work with company that give money to Google, but you don't give money to Google, or I don't know, perhaps a little money, but they're not interested about your money, are interested more about money of Prada, I can assure to you. So, basically, Prada give not money to the Italian entity, but they have an internet, an interconnection only with the Italian employee, but then they give the money to Google Ireland, and Google Ireland give the money to Google Italy. So, this is just, it works for one side, but when you are a user, so normal person, not Prada, you have an agreement with Google Inc.

directly, because they control all the data, but then arrives GDPR, and GDPR was a revolution in this side, because if you remember the other course, the GDPR said, no, if you want, if you are a European citizen, you have to be established in Europe. So, after 2018, all the contract with you are not more with Google Inc., but with Google Ireland, not with Google Italy, because they decided, again for tax reason, that the best place is Ireland, Dublin. And so, this is the reason why, so you just have an agreement with Google Ireland. 

But Google Ireland, you say perfectly, is controlled by Google Inc., okay? So, from our side, Google Ireland should respect the law of Ireland, and so European law. Remember that Ireland is one of the states that decided that data retention directive is not valid, declared, that was the first, strangely, that was the first state that decided that data retention cannot be done. So, they don't have, they are in a place where is not, there is no obligation to store data, okay? But they are in United States, because at the top, there is Google Inc., and in United States, there is another law.

So, your data now is controlled by an entity that is an European entity, Google, your Gmail account is controlled by an entity that is an European entity, but that is controlled by Inc. And now start the problem, because again, I talk about defamation, and there is a lot of defamation case in the last, the increase of the defamation case is incredible, because there is a lot of person, for the reason that I explained before, the criminal activity is a right for every citizen, so there is a lot of person that every single day that you receive an insult on TikTok or Instagram, whatever, you will go to the police, postal police, specifically to say, oh, he said to me, fuck off. Okay, perfectly. 

So, we start a criminal activity. But what is the first amendment in the United States Constitution? The first amendment, the first amendment, articulo uno della costituzione, the first amendment of the United States is freedom of speech. So, nobody in the United States can be prosecuted for any kind of defamation. 

I can go in the United States, and I can say, Trump, fuck off, probably I will be killed by the law enforcement. But nobody can prosecute me, also because I died, so there is no need to do that. So, it's a point that we have, but from a legal standpoint, the first amendment in the United States, you can say whatever you want, in any situation. 

In Italy, you have article 595 of the criminal code that says that you cannot, you can insult, if you are interested, because this is injuria, you can insult everybody because it's not more a crime. But if I insult you in a private way, Paolo, it's not a crime. But if I insult you here, with many persons, it's defamation and it is a crime. 

But in the United States, it's not a crime. So, how can a US citizen and US employee that work in Google accept the fact that they have to cooperate for a crime that is not a crime in their country? And we have to come back to China, because, and this was my life, you have to explain, because they see that, imagine that you are a United States citizen, and you figure out that they know a lot of information, but if you are a United States citizen, you think that the United States is the only place in the world to live, they also have not the idea to travel and to know a different culture. This is really important to understand, just to give you an idea, a flavor of what is the United States culture.

It's not, we cannot generalize, obviously, but it's absolutely true that they're not really interested about the other world. So, they made a lot of confusion about what is the different culture. And Italy, if you see, for a lot of reasons, if you see our democracy level, we are not at a good level of democracy from a worldwide perspective.

So, we started to ask for information because I insulted Paolo in social media, so this is a defamation, and Paolo decided to go to the police. And then the police said, okay, the same you can make with Meta, it's the same story, because we're talking about Instagram, and asked Meta. And Meta said, I cannot give you this information because it's against our constitution. 

And they say, because I cannot know what will be the sanction for Giuseppe, because I'm worried about the possibility that he can be killed by the Italian government. And you have to explain to them that China is one thing, and Italy is another thing. And also, we are not discussing about Giuseppe that criticized the Italian government. 

And I can tell you for sure that you will not be killed if you criticize the Italian government. But the problem is that for the idea of United States, there is not so much distinction. So, basically, what happened is they don't give information in a defamation case, or other, we could say, cases related to the freedom of speech. 

And when we talk about social media, and when we talk about the internet, 90% is a question of freedom of speech, a question of culture, because a question of religion, because for some country, if I insult God, it's absolutely a crime. All the Muslim culture is a crime. You can, yes, you cannot be killed, but you will pass a lot of problems if you insult God in some religion, in some state, sorry, because there is a strong connection between the religion and the state law. 

In other countries, you can insult God. It's a crime, also in Italy, but it's not a big crime. You will be fined with a monetary sanction, in this case, just in certain situations. 

So, you have a different culture, completely different culture. And in United States, all this stuff is nothing, nothing. Because you can do, you can say whatever you want against any kind of God. 

And this makes you say, oh, it's not a problem. It depends. It depends, because it started to become a real problem, because you offer services, figure out you are in Turkish, you are in Iran, you are in some Muslim country, you offer services, all the citizens in this country use these services. 

But at the same time, you have to accept the fact that if they violate the law, and again, we have different culture and different law, and we have to respect every law, I don't judge any kind of law, but the fact that you have only a single point that is located in Delaware, from a tax purpose, but basically in Silicon Valley for the technical side. And they have the power to decide all this information. And it's, I want also to explain that it's not simple for that kind of guys, that is young guys that they have to decide case by case. 

And the decision was, we will not give you any kind of information when we discuss about the freedom of speech. And this becomes, this is a real mess. So when we have this kind of information, this is the transparency report, this is an old one, it's 2023, but you can go to Google, and you can Google transparency report, and you will see all the requests that are made every single year. 

Now we are discussing about for last 500 million requests, but perhaps now it's more than 1 million, 1 million and two, something like that. So imagine around the world, and you can see also what kind of type of request, and you will see that 80%, 70% of the requests are related to freedom of speech, connection with freedom of speech. Oh, we have to do a, no, at 10, we will stop. 

So 10 minutes, and we will have a coffee. This is the increase, obviously, in the year we started, as you see in 2009, it was, I was also, I insist too much to give this transparency report, because it's important for all the user to know how it works, and what are the disclosure of requests. This is Twitter.

Sorry, Twitter is really boomer. X, and then we come back to, do you know who is it? Wonderful, tell again. Zhukov, Igor Zhukov, that is the most enemy that the law enforcement now knows, because Zhukov decided not to give any kind of information to law enforcement for any kind of activity, not only freedom of speech. 

So he was arrested, as you probably remember, one year and a half ago, if I remember well, but you can Google it if you are interested, it's not a question for the exam, but just to give you an idea that we have a different position. And it's really difficult to stop this phenomenon, because yes, now after this arrest, there is more cooperation from Telegram side, a little bit more, not a lot, but again, when you will have the perfect cooperation from Telegram, all the cyber criminal or the person that want to use and to exercise their freedom of speech, they will use another tool. Every single day, you can use Signal, whatever you want. 

So you have a lot of tool where you can be, where you are able to exercise your freedom of speech. And again, Carola Frediani, I suggest you to read some of her book, because he works on this kind of field, that is the line that is really interesting line between the connection that is between the cyber criminal and the activist. Because if you are an activist, if you want to fight for freedom and for fundamental rights in your country, and there is a lot of country where you cannot have fundamental rights, you need a tool that is a totally anonymized tool. 

So from that kind of point of view, Telegram is a wonderful tool because it can give you the opportunity to be anonymous with your country, but at the same time, if you want to do a digital forensics activity, and if you want to do a digital investigation, Telegram is the most enemy, because the cyber criminal can use the same tool. So again, also Tor is the same issue. The Tor project started to help the activists to defend their ideas, figure out the China example that I made you with the Yahoo blogger. 

So the idea is the same tool is also used by activists, by wonderful person that spend their life for the other citizen, and for the cyber criminal that they spend their life to destroy the life of other citizens. So this is the real situation. So where and how digital evidence is host? So you have, this is a really simple scheme that I suggest you to remember because it's useful to have a summarization of all the information that I gave. 

From our side, you can have the evidence on the, when you are really lucky on the suspected personal computer. That is not so difficult, because what is the trend that we have so many redundancy in the digital copies that probably you can have a lot of information also in the device now, because it's, we want to have a easy life. Also the criminal wants to have an easy life, coming back to the idea that when you are a digital forensic, you don't have to under evaluate the fact that not all the cyber criminal are so clever. 

There are some stupid cyber criminal luckily. So basically you can also in the laptop, you can find a lot of evidence, but you have to have access to the laptop. And this is the big issue because if the cyber criminal is in Estonia or whatever, not because I don't have any problem with Estonia, but just to give you an idea, it's a mess to have access to the suspect personal computer or any kind of devices. 

And the digital evidence could be also in the third party. So I would say internet service provider, but you have to consider also the importance of the money in the investigation. If you remember, follow the money is one of the rule for any kind of investigator. 

So the bank account, the provider account, the international provider. So Stripe from our side, PayPal, they have a lot of potential information now. Obviously Bitcoin is another story, but, and all kinds of crypto are another story, but there is a lot of transaction that could be really interesting and that happens in a traced way. 

Why? Because if you want to fraud someone, you cannot do in Bitcoin, only if you do a ransom, but this is another story. So Bitcoin is not the official, yes, it's obviously it's the official currency of the if they want to exchange each other money, but when they do their fraud activity, they normally use traditional and traced tool. So that's why also the bank has an important role when we talk about third parties. 

Now we discuss about network provider because it's more digital, but also the money is important. When you have access to a personal computer device, you have another issue that is the encryption, because now there is a lot of encrypted activity that is made by default to figure out the iOS system that I have, for example, that is automatically encrypted. So I can remotely wipe any kind of information or encrypt any kind of information. 

So it's important to see how the encryption could be a limit for the investigator. And again, you see that encryption, that is one of the wonderful and most important value for the cybersecurity expert is also the best way to hide the information to the digital investigator. So it's a little bit schizophrenic, what is my life, because from one side, we have the cybersecurity law course where we explain the importance of encryption. 

And at the same time, when we talk about digital forensics, the encryption is the enemy. Like the question that you posed at the beginning, Stefano, the data retention is an important value for GDPR, and so you have to limit the data and the retention of data because you have to give the privacy to the citizen. On the other side, for a law enforcement officer, many data you have, many possibility you have to do the investigation. 

So there is an important fracture between the digital forensics expert and the cybersecurity expert. The idea and the principle are the opposite. They use the same tool, but with an opposite idea. 

So we had, and we will see also this part, so I anticipate, we tried in the past to solve the encryption issue with the key mandatory law. So the idea that you can create a law to impose to a citizen to give the password. So this is another big issue that I want to ask you. 

For you, is it correct to impose to a person to give the password? Why? In relation of privacy, yes, privacy is not the only answer. Also, I would say a word that is more important, why we have a specific law that gives the opposite principle. So you cannot impose to a person, even if you are a law enforcement officer, to give the password.

Wonderful, this is perfect, the dictator. So if you talk about dictator, you think about another issue that is torture. Because if you start to have the possibility to ask to a person from a legal standpoint, a password, and I refuse to give you a password, I can start, and this is the beginning of the loss of democracy, dictator, and also torture, that is a possibility to obtain information. 

And that's why we have Miranda Declaration. The Miranda Declaration is really famous in the TV series, especially US TV series, because you have the right not to talk, when they arrest someone in the United States, there is that kind of declaration that probably you have seen in a lot of TV series. So that kind of Miranda Declaration, that is the idea that you can also lie to the law enforcement, you have the right to lie to law enforcement, is because we want to defend democracy. 

But only if you are the investigated person. If you are a witness, you have the obligation to tell the truth. So if you are the investigated person, if you are the suspected, and you are arrested or not, but basically, it's more easy to understand that when you are arrested, you have the possibility to lie. 

But if you are a witness, obviously, you cannot lie. It's a crime if you lie, then we will discover why it's important this distinction. The third part is goes to internet service provider, network service provider, telco, is the same internet network, bank, as I was saying. 

And in that case, we have the jurisdiction problem that I explained to you before. So you have to understand what is the owner of the data. And I spoiler the final day, 90% of our data, the owner is United States.

And the owner of the data has jurisdiction, and they can decide on the basis of his jurisdiction. So this is the scheme that we have to remember. So if you go to the physical part, you have the basically potential encryption problem. 

If you go to the digital part, or on the cloud, I would say you have the jurisdiction problem. So this is just to summarize and to simplify the big issue that we have during an investigation. So we can stop for 10 minutes, 15 minutes, we can continue at 10 or 15.





Sorry, we have to continue because it's a little bit late. There was a lot of questions. So, as you can imagine, we have a problem because we have the key mandatory law and the jurisdiction that are the main problem. 

I already explained why this kind of parties are important during digital investigation. This is an old slide. When I talk credit card company, you have imagined also the digital payment, so all the Stripe and PayPal and all the other digital payment stuff. 

Also, this is really simple to understand, but it's important to fix this concept that when we talk about cloud computing, we have a real loss of data location because, as we were discussing just a minute ago, the idea that when we are discussing about cloud, we have to figure out two technical issues. One thing is the entity that manage the data. So, when you have a cloud with Dropbox, the entity is Dropbox Inc. 

So, you have the entity is, Dropbox is a United States entity, but where really the data is located, do you know? Because you know that there is the redundancy, so the data also when we talk about Google or when we talk about AWS could be in different server because they always change. So, perhaps in a second could be in some data, could be in Alaska, I do not know, and the other data could be in Belgium or in other data centers. So, to locate exactly where the data is when we talk about cloud computing, I think that is quite impossible.

And this has also an effect from a legal standpoint. Then, to simplify, because the life is already complex, the idea is we have to figure out what is the jurisdiction of the legal entity. But the evidence, the data is not in the jurisdiction, a lot of time is not in the jurisdiction of the legal entity. 

But because it could be also present in other server, especially when you don't have a direct agree, especially when you are a user and you have a new asset, sometimes a condition that is not in your favor because when you are an entity, a company is a different situation because you have some duty, thanks to GDPR, have a precise location of data. But there is a lot of situation that make me crazy because you say, yes, I have the agreement with Google Ireland. Yes, the entity is Google Ireland, formally, that is a company managed by Google Inc., controlled by Google Inc., but you don't know where is the data. 

Differently is when you have the precise location of the data center. But this is things that you have to pay, especially with the AWS. So, this is something that we have to consider. 

So, apart this slide, that is, yes, you have obviously data at rest, transient execution. The real point is the location of data, especially when we talk about citizen and not company, it's really a mess. The next two slides are a little bit different from the logic of the discussion that I started, but it's really important. 

Then we go back or we can do this kind of job. So, we can discuss about the jurisdiction and privacy mandatory and then the presentation in the court will make more sense. So, then we come back to the presentation, to the other two slides. 

Mandatory key laws. Paolo, if I remember well, asked me about this key law, mandatory key law. From one side, it makes sense to create a law to impose to the insuspective person to reveal the password. 

Because if you have this enormous problem of encryption, it makes sense from a theoretical point of view, the law. But I already explained to you why from a constitutional point of view, for a democracy point of view, you cannot





information and we had also in United States an important case that was the Boucher case where also not because there was a law in United States but because they try to obtain this information with force and this citizen Boucher was a Canadian citizen and it started a great fight between the US and Canada that is one of the most of the that is happening in 2010 and after this legal case and legal battle they also United States agree that there is no any possibility to have any law or any kind of other imposition to the suspected person. We some some nation tried Australia, Belgium, France also start with this kind of law but at the very end all this law not only in these three states but you can go to Wikipedia and then you can google a key mandatory law if you want to have more information about what happened but all this law were declared inconstitutional. But there is another way to obtain the information because if you remember what I said before is that the suspected person has always the right to lie but not the witness. 

So it happens this tricky issue that is and you have to remember also for the laboratory if you want to obtain an information I say that I have a suspect to Paolo but I don't I don't I don't I don't say anything and I don't write anything in my investigation I just have a suspect. So I asked to Paolo to come in my office and I'm a law enforcement officer and I ask and I and I start to ask a question to Paolo as a person informed of the fact that means a witness in in in the distinction is that when the witness is when there is a criminal trial so you are in the court hearing a person informed of the facts is a person during the investigation you can ask to some person you have a simple issue just to give you an idea there is an incident in there in the street and then all the person that sees the incident are personally informed of the facts and so you have to take this information of this person and obviously when you have seen an incident in this in the street you cannot obviously it's a real serious crime to to make any kind of lie so this is the reason why because you are a witness you don't have any responsibility the only responsibility is to tell the truth or what you see what you remember whatever. So I asked to Paolo to come and I say okay Paolo can you give me your password and in this case Paolo what you have to do to tell the truth or not so in this case I can bypass the the principle because I can obtain the password of Paolo and then I can and then after this after this information I can say okay Paolo now after this word I think that I have a suspect with you so I start an investigation give me your laptop and then you put the password on the laptop and then you can start the analysis of the laptop. 

This is the I say a way there is a lot of way to circumvent the constitutional principle and we have to and this is the reason why it's important the role of the attorney because he always thinks that the attorneys are useful for two issues to create wonderful movie series or to to do stupid activity but sometimes it happens that the lawyers are also useful to defend this kind of right because this is a way in every in every moment in the story of the democracy that I hope that will remain for the next 200 years at least for the next generation and it's the way to preserve the way because there is a lot of tricky a lot of potential idea to make a confusion between the three power that is legislative executive and judiciary and and there is a lot of way also in the judiciary system to circumvent this kind of constitutional principle so this is a way and I have seen a lot of case where you obtain this information in this way that is completely incorrect because you cannot if you have a suspect you have to start the investigation against this person you cannot ask to come to to say to this person to come as a witness and then after one second change your idea and become a suspect because it's evident that you just want to have the information but if you ask to a law enforcement officer he says you you have created this complexity because the law can because you have declared in constitutional the key mandatory law so I had to find the other solution to fight against criminals and I also understand this point of view why for me he make an incredible mistake because he cannot has the possibility to change or to misinterpret a law just because he has a suspect because this is the idea as we talked before that take us immediately to the from a democracy to a dictatorship so that's why it's important to preserve this right but anyway this is the way to obtain the information sometimes and and the idea that the witness has to tell the truth so the legislative instrument doesn't work I've already explained also this slide there are some technical reason obviously because also you have to figure out that this I didn't I didn't explain very well that there is a lot of way to to create a to hide an information for example some anti-forensic who asked me about anti-forensics you so so there is some anti-forensic techniques that that that give you the possibility to to create a sort of Chinese wall and then you can create a file that is encrypted with another file that is encrypted with another file that is encrypted so you can create situation where it's really difficult anyway even if you have the password to obtain the information so you can find a lot of way to hide a file just to be clear and also because there is a possible violation obviously of european convention on human rights and this is article six that is absolutely important so having said that so having seen that from a technical standpoint the the password cannot be revealed and from a jurisdiction perspective I already explained something but I want to be also after your question I want to give you some final clarification first of all some of you tell me just to be clear google has to respect the data attention law no because google is a US company google meta whatever all these company are the same the structure is the same all the platform that you use normally are the same so US company Dropbox, Amazon, whatever after GDPR they have legal entity in Ireland before UK now UK is not Europe more so they have to change the the some of them remaining UK but the the less famous because it's not legal to remain UK they go to Dublin so there is the jurisdiction of Dublin and as I explained to you there is no data retention directive in Dublin so they don't have any law that impose any kind of respect of data retention so they can why you can have information from google on google only from a voluntary activity made by google and that's why I fight with them until 2014 to convince them that in a certain sense it's important to to have a balance that is not five years but it's not only zero days because that is because because because it's a problem so you have to to to we arrived at 90 days at the beginning and now it's six months it's not an official information obviously because they don't reveal in the present condition the data retention for currently security perspective but anyway they do this kind of activity because they can they do what they want basically there is no any kind of law that impose to the US platform retention so it's crazy because when I see it happens that some criminal use account like libero I think that more how many of you has Italian account like libero alice ah romantic way I really like you libero it's it's my and so this kind of activity you have a retention of if you have a libero you what kind of five years wonderful so basically but if you have a gmail account and probably you have also gmail account what is your attention and not attention they can do what they want there is a retention of six months but the it's correct also to say no retention technique for the there is a retention because they are but it's a voluntary retention there is no any kind of law that impose the retention so this is just to be clear about the jurisdiction so and there is another problem of jurisdiction that they also can decide the for what crime they give the information and for what kind they don't give the information because they say I have to respect my jurisdiction not your jurisdiction so my jurisdiction is US jurisdiction that you say why you have a an entity I have a contact entity that is in Ireland but then I have to respect the US jurisdiction this is because they are US there is no any kind of legal reason why they do this but they don't accept the idea that they have to respect the Ireland jurisdiction when we talk about crime because they say okay guys we have respected the GDPR we have do the European games but now when we talk about serious issue we are in the United States we are Americans so we do as we want and now when we talk about crime we do the American style so this is basically the theory that I have understood when we talk about crime because from a formal standpoint again we have to discuss about Ireland but if you are really interested and I'm interested about this issue because it's our future to tell you the truth it's interesting to say that also in Ireland there is a strong freedom of speech right so there is a connection between Ireland and United States when we talk about freedom of speech but it's not for this reason that they don't accept our jurisdiction they say we are basically even if we have the entity and establishment in Dublin we are American and we respect American law so in this scenario that is a scenario that is quite complex because we have discussed only about United States that is 90 percent of our activity but the cyber criminal do you think that the cyber criminal use United States services why Stefano? Yes also because United States from a perspective of not an Italian investigator that wants to criminalize an Italian activity but from the perspective of a Russian for example investigator United States is a big mess so they prefer to use Russian servers also Sweden server or because Sweden it's quite I have seen that there is some really activist that it's really difficult to obtain then there is a lot of service around there is a lot of services sorry or service provider that give you this kind of services around the world without any real problem of jurisdiction because when we talk about United States that is the main important issue anyway we are talking about a place where for example when we had a kidnapping case I manage a case of terrorism attack that happens in the in Milan in 2014 and we prevent this attack thanks to Google so when we talk about a real important issue you have a contact with this kind of guys so basically there is a strong connection between FBI CIA Interpol and the Italian police so there is a lot of the only issue is that from one side when we talk about big big crime especially terrorism you have this procedure that is called emergency disclosure procedure emergency disclosure procedure that give you the possibility to have a point of content 24 7 and so 24 7 and so you have the possibility to have this direct contact the problem is when you have to manage a case that is for example a ransomware case ransomware case or some cases is not the case or other criminal fraud and all this kind of stuff also criminal investigation like corruption criminal investigation that are located in Italy and there is no cooperation and one times it happens that there was a kidnapping case in in Mexico was an Italian but the kidnapped person was an Italian person and they asked me during the major emergency disclosure they say I asked me can you explain me why is an emergency for you for your point of view and they say okay I will try to explain because they they you have to explain that the risk there is a there is a risk of that the person can can die in 24 less or 48 per hour and this person was not known it was dispersed since one week so they say okay one week is too much so probably she's died so there is no emergency so this is yes this is the the way of thinking when you have to discuss with them but anyway the point is apart from some problem of comprehension because they are really strict so if you say 24 hours 48 hours it should be in this way so it's really important to to be precise with them also you can in a certain sense lie but you can obtain information when you talk about Russian or China or whatever you you will not have any kind of cooperation you cannot also start so if you see that there is a connection with this kind of country it's impossible just to give you the idea of the complexity so we talk about America because it's something that is also interesting for you but there is a plenty of solution for the cyber criminal to find the the correct jurisdiction so this is just to complete the reasoning so what is the potential new solution we can call it remote forensics remote forensics we can call it Trojan and Keylogger there is a lot of spyware activity my definition is remote forensics but anyway it's just one of the definition that has been done has been decided and chosen in the last 10 years what is remote forensics basically if I we were discussing with one of you yes the idea that I know very well that you that Pierfrancesco is the suspected person but Pierfrancesco is really clever so use I don't know a server of Trinidad of Tobago I don't know and then I cannot have access to him and he has encrypted his laptop in a wonderful way but Pierfrancesco is here is in front of me so I want to have his information but I cannot take the laptop because I know that is encrypted I cannot have the information because is in a data center where I cannot have in any sense any jurisdiction access so what I can do I can hack his computer so the big question is if this is the solution if we are arrived on the fact that the key mandatory law are not a possible solution the witness tricky issue that I explained to you before Paolo to be the example with Paolo is not a constitutional way the general approach that started in 2010 is okay so if the cyber criminal use Trojan and Keylogger to enter in the laptop of the victim of the crime why the law enforcement cannot use the same tool to hack the computer of the suspected person so why so this is was the starting point was this reasoning so from a legal standpoint is the criminal can use it and the law enforcement cannot use it why and there is a plenty of reason why is not for me legal to do this kind of activity but also in a certain sense I can understand the fact that again it's a weapon and if you remember if you know in ukraine the the the policemen in the street cannot use any kind of arm they cannot use a weapon and then they and this also has some consequences in the in the style of life of the uk i think that if you if you can apply this kind of rule in italy you will have a lot of problem from a civil perspective so a civil society perspective so what happened in 2008 when there was the first case of the use of remote forensics the german constitutional court as you can understand in german the idea of the protection of privacy and fundamental rights not only privacy fundamental rights in the digital side is really strong and the german constitutional court this is an important decision please remember for the exam decided that this law of nordwestfalia that was a law that created the possibility to hack the computer of the suspected person was not constitutional why because there was a violation of privacy of correspondence the inviolability of the home so obviously and then the right really interesting for me the right to informational self-determinations that is the idea that i can have the right to be in when i am in in in my digital life i cannot be hacked i cannot be there is a protection that is more than privacy is the right to informational self-determination so it's a sort of new right to the confidentiality and integrity of the information technology system and this was an important decision but this decision even if it was if it was useful to destroy this law of nordwestfalia has not been really applied because um chaos computer club also demonstrated that there was a lot of spyware activity conducting with a lot of citizen in bavaria in in brandenburg and in a lot of place and and so what have what what what what what was what what happened also in italy and in some european country um basically the same situation so from a formal way the the the legal uh expert and the attorney always says that hacking a computer of a citizen it's a violation of fundamental rights but at the same time there was an underground activity until 2015 of this kind of hacking because because there was the need because when you start for example about a mafia mafia case when you started with the mafia case it's really difficult in italy the mafia case because you have to be to take care of a lot of situation and sometimes there is no a situation like il padrino that we have in in the movie it's more delicate it's more tricky and so when you ask this information to start a word tapping of a gmail account of a potential mafioso mafia person you you you and on the other side from google you receive the fact that i cannot do that because there is no specific crime there is just a suspect yes there is a suspect i need to do this kind of activity um and so when they start to see that in the organized crime not only mafia and rangida whatever but all the organized crime there was it lacked this kind of cooperation with the with the with with the main provider in this case google had a real important role because at the beginning all the the organized crime use this kind of tool because they they knew since 2010 that there was no uh um control because there was no jurisdiction and they start to use it and then this started to become a serious problem for the law enforcement and then they started to do okay if we don't have the cooperation of google if we don't have the possibility to have access to the laptop we start to hack and in italy was one of the most important company sorry state that used this kind of tool and we had also created in milan one of the most important company that does this kind of activity that is called hacking team and hacking team is was a company that created a lot of interesting spyware rcs galileo is one of the most famous that was really helpful and then i will discuss this case in the next lesson so just to anticipate the point in 2015 there was this important data breach and data leaks that explain how it was big this kind of hacking made from the state to a lot of citizen because it's a it's an interesting tool so why this happened because because you you can understand the importance of the remote forensics or the spyware just because you have to start with the frustration of the law enforcement that can start from 2006 up to 2010 they can they were blocked they cannot do any kind of investigation so this is the story then in 2015 around the world start to there was some legislation around the world that give the the possibility to legalize this kind of hacking creating some limit so for example i explained this is not for the exam but just to give you a flavor and it's important for you but to to follow me but it's not it will not be an answer for the exam because it's too much complex there was in italy a law there is a law sorry that was started in 2018 17 18 and then was modified until last year that says that i can hack your laptop i can hack your digital device mobile whatever mobile or whatever but i can do only to open the mic and open the webcam to make word tapping do you know what is word tapping interception okay because you open the mic and so you you have a mobile where with you act but you just open the mic and the webcam whenever you want so in this moment they open the mic and they can hear whatever they want this is the and only for organized crime but what is my fear and what is the fear of any legal expert that when you do this kind of activity and when you enter in a mobile phone or in a in a digital device you have the access or on every kind of resources not only yes you can also open the mic and you can also open the webcam whatever but you can also see what what is inside so how can you trust the law enforcement that have the opportunity to enter in the laptop of pier francesco but they say no no i don't i don't see anything i don't do anything i just open the mic to to to to make this kind of work happening that is a reception so this is the the big issue the the fight that i try to do since now from 2015 up 2020 then i i lost my my my hope to to obtain a result because the idea for me was to put in the law what the digital forensics principle because in the law there is no written any kind of digital forensics principle so this is make me crazy because the the solution could be and now i leave the floor to the technician and not to me to to put some clear rule that can log the activity of the law enforcement because in a certain sense i give you the possibility to have a nuclear bomb okay because they proceed to give you the possibility to hack a laptop of a suspected person is a nuclear bomb from a digital investigation perspective and then obviously my view as a digital forensics expert is okay you can have this but you can have to trace any kind of activity that you do no they don't have to trace anything so they just we have to trust that the law enforcement enter in the laptop or in a mobile of the suspected person just to open the mic and the webcam and this is make me crazy in a certain sense because it's obviously i don't have any problem with law enforcement but it's human uh it's it's obviously that if you are going to make an investigation and it's you you are starting to become crazy you have the opportunity to hack the laptop of the suspected person that is not so easy as we say now as you can imagine because it's especially when you talk about cyber crime they are really experts so it's it's a fight to hack a person and also it's also costly effective because it make you have to make a lot of attempt you have to to to use technical consent then when





You have the possibility to have access, you don't enter in the email, make me, it's a question. Yes, this is the purposes. Okay, so if you are hacking and you see another person that commit a crime but is not connected to the investigation, this is the question. 

Is a person that commit, very lucky in a certain sense, but anyway it could happen, yes, because there is, not in the street, but perhaps you are investigated on the mafia case and you discover that there is in the conversation a murder case that is not connecting with your case but is another, yes, as I also explained in the last lesson, you can start a new investigation, you cannot put in the same investigation this new information, but yes, yes, it's true and this is the matter of an attorney to discuss if it is admissible or not and it depends of what is the crime, first of all, but again, if it is a crime that creates, and this is what is the Italian case law, I can answer you just for the Italian case law because this is a question that is quite complex, if it is a crime against the public faith, so it's a really important crime, you can, you are a law enforcement, if you do from a procedural point of view the right procedure, that is to start an investigation and to have the authorization of the judge that give you the possibility, sorry for the complex answer, but the question is complex, the possibility to not communicate to the investigated person that is investigated, you understand? Okay, if not, you cannot understand. At the basis of all the criminal procedure, there is a rule, you cannot start an investigation if you don't advise the person, if you don't notify the person that you are investigating to him, okay? This is the general principle, so if you want to start an investigation against Paolo, I have to, the police say, okay Paolo, we are going to make an investigation against you, but there is a logical exception, if we know that Paolo is a potential dangerous person and if we think that Paolo perhaps, if we know that we start an investigation against him, take a flight to Trinidad and Tobago, we have to evaluate the risk that this person is not, if we cannot advise this person, but is not the prosecutor or the law enforcement that can decide that Paolo is dangerous and we don't notify to him this information, should be a judge, okay? The judge make an evaluation and say, okay, yes, you give me good elements to say that we can postpone the notification to Paolo, the notice to Paolo about the criminal investigation, because there is a serious risk that if we advise him, he will also destroy the evidence, goes in another jurisdiction or whatever, because he is a dangerous person, so this is the general assumption. So, the real point is, if you discover another crime, you have to start an investigation and evaluate with the proper procedural way, if the person is dangerous or not, because if he's not dangerous, you have to advise him that you are going to make this investigation, okay? So, it's a matter of lawyer, because when you discover about another crime in an investigation, it happens a lot of time that the procedure is not respected by the prosecutor, because, why this happen? Because one thing, they don't have time, and the other thing is that during the trial, this question of admissibility, that is the first question that you asked me, is not really well accepted by the judge, because there is a general principle that is, if there is a crime and if you have an evidence of a crime, we use this evidence, and this is a general principle that is applicable in the civil law. 

So, if you are in Europe, I would say in Italy, it's a perfect example, there is the idea of the judge to take all the evidence, even if the evidence are not admissible. There is indeed another rule in United States and UK, that is the fruit of the poisonous tree, I don't know if you have heard this rule, the fruit of the poisonous tree, il frutto dell'albero avvelenato, for the Italian guys, that is the idea that if you take the evidence from this tree, you cannot take this evidence, that is your theory. But this kind of idea that the evidence is not admissible is more in the common law state like US and UK. 

In that case, it happens that you have more possibility in the court to fight against the admissibility, but in my case, if there is a video that demonstrates that you are a murderer, even if you have acquired this video in a way that is not admissible, I can assure you that it's really hard for an Italian lawyer to make something against this evidence because the judge doesn't care the rule of the fruit of the poisonous tree. So, it was a quite complex question to answer because it's a lesson of criminal procedure in one second. But anyway, coming back to the German Constitutional Court and to the idea of the... I don't remember where we were because I was explained about the fact that now, yes, in Italy there is a real difficulty to obtain, because we obtained in 2017 a potential amendment of the bill, but then now the bill is not interesting. 

It's another reason why the digital forensics view is not so considered for me, in Italy at least, but also in Europe, because again, when we talk about hacking a computer, the importance of digital forensics should be fundamental. For example, in the Bossetti case, you don't know, you remember the Yara Gambirasio case. What happened? That the Carabinieri used hacking team and the tool of hacking team to enter in the Bossetti, that was the investigator, the defendant, because then he was also convicted, person in the Yara Gambirasio case. 

And the attorney of the investigated person and then the defendant, because when you are before the trial, you are investigated or suspected, indicted, just to give you some legal words, and then you become a defendant during the trial, just to give you an idea. So, indagato, imputato, for the Italian speaking person. So, the defendant, the lawyer of the defendant explained that as we don't have any digital procedure, digital forensics procedure, we don't have the, because the Carabinieri revealed some email, because it was before the law that explained that you can open the laptop just for the microphone and the video camera. 

So, they enter and they enter and they take all the email that Bossetti sent. And the lawyer of the defendant, and this is important also for the laboratory, start to say, okay, but who tell us that that email was written by Bossetti or has been written by the Carabinieri? Because if you are in the computer and if you have a keylogger, you can write an email. So, you can create an evidence against the suspected person during the investigation and then use this evidence that is created by the law enforcement to have the evidence that is the criminal that make this kind of crime.

So, this is a question, an open question. Obviously, if we all trust to the law enforcement, this is crazy question. But if from a technical point of view, it's possible for me, we should avoid to have this kind of doubt, because if you have any single doubt, you have to acquit a person. 

And when you create a system that gives the possibility to create doubt, you have the possibility to acquit any person if we follow the criminal procedure. So, that's why it's really important, the digital forensics in the hacking activity, spyware, whatever, remote forensics, tell you the word that you prefer, but this is really important because we need to certify when you do an activity that is so strong, because you enter, you can say, you can do the same thing in the seizure, search and seizure activity. Do you know what is search and seizure? Perquisizione e sequestro for the Italian speaking person. 

So, when you do a search and seizure, you can say, okay, I will make a search of some drug in the house of Pierfrancesco, and then I can enter, I can have some drug, I put the drug in the bed of Francesco and say, oh Francesco, this is yours. But at the same time, when there is a search and seizure, you should have an order, a decree, you have the right to call an attorney and you have the right to follow the policeman that make this kind of search and seizure. So, you have the possibility to see what happened. 

And so, if we put, even if it's difficult, because there is this risk, but theoretically you can check with your eyes what happened during a search and seizure. But when there is a digital search and seizure, because when you hack a computer, basically, it's, for me, it's a digital search and seizure, you don't have the possibility, because you are not know that in that moment, someone is in your life, that is not your physical life in your home, but is in your digital home, that is your laptop. But you are not able to see what happened.

And that's why it's important, the digital forensics, because from a technical perspective, and also from a procedural perspective, you can impose the fact that you have the possibility to check any kind of activity that the law enforcement make when is inside your computer, without your knowledge. Because it also makes sense in a certain way, even if I make a comparison between the physical and digital search and seizure, because this, for me, is a search and seizure. It's a perquisizione sequestro, but in your digital life. 

And as you, when the police arrive in your home, cannot enter in your home, if you are not present in your home, they have to knock at the door and give you an order. At the same time, I think that they should do the same things. So, and it's not so crazy to think, because from a technical point of view, you could make a search and seizure with a hacking. 

So, I say, okay, guys, I have hacked your computer. Okay, now I am in the control of your computer. Now I make a search and seizure.

You can see what I'm doing, but you cannot do anything because I do this kind of activity. I think that it's not really easy, but if you are really a good hacker, you can do this kind of activity, theoretically. So, these are the questions that it's important for your future, because for the time being, the only good point that we have is that this kind of hacking is really cost effective. 

So, the law enforcement, even if they have the legal opportunity to hack the computer of any suspected person, device or whatever, they don't do too much because it's really cost effective. But we cannot think that this is a point that we don't have to consider as we are discussing about our private life. So, jurisdiction, the loss, just a summarization of what I explained since now. 

From a legal standpoint, cloud computing services have to face these two distinctions issue. The loss of location of digital evidence in the cloud would create problem of jurisdiction. With cloud computer are the document governed by the law of the state in which they are physically located or by the location of the company possessing them or by the laws of the state where a person resides. 

These are the questions that we have made in the last year. Over the last few years, various approaches have been offered to solve this problem. The lack of control over the data, cloud clients may no longer be in exclusive control of their data and cannot deploy the technical and organizational measure necessary to respect data protection law. 

And the absence of transparency are the main data protection risk of cloud computing. So, this is the loss of location that is a principle. So, there is a lot of lack of control over the data that create this kind of problem that is lack of internal availability, lack of integrity, lack of availability, lack of there is a repetition of but is two different internal ability to the complexity, lack of information on processing and transparency, lack of isolation and lack of confidentiality. 

All important principle but this is the last information that I want to leave you for today is privacy and due process right, cloud computer and jurisdiction. We have four potential principles. This is a question for the exam, please guys. 

Not the other one but this is important. This is important. Because you have to remember this principle because open your mind of the issue of the jurisdiction and the risk of not consider the jurisdiction when you do an investigation.

Because when you do a digital forensics investigation, you can have the evidence, you can have access of a lot of evidence but your principal question is where is located the evidence, who is, what kind of jurisdiction is applicable because you are not in Italy. When you are in the digital environment, you are not in Italy, you are not in your country, you are not, you don't know where you are because any single evidence can have a difference potential place. So, the principle that we use in the world is territorial principle, is the simple one and also we use in the digital world the court in the place where the data is located as jurisdiction. 

There is a sort of interpretation that is quite a generous interpretation I would say because it's not where the data is located for U.S. idea but where the data is managed. So, if sometimes it happens that the data is not located in U.S. or in Ireland or whatever but it's the company that managed this data. Even if this is for me is not real the territorial principle because for me the territorial principle is the idea that is where the data is physically but when we talk about digital data it's quite complex to say I want to know exactly where the data is located. 

And so, that's why we have simplified to say okay is the territorial principle is the company that managed this data. The nationality principle is the nationality of the perpetrator of the crime and is used to use criminal jurisdiction. From a certain point of view it could be used.

In certain cases it's really difficult because especially when there is, imagine a case where there is a crime committed in Italy by a Russian person could happen. It's really difficult to think that the jurisdiction is Russian jurisdiction because we have to consider the nationality of the victim of the crime. So, and also the location where the crime is committed that is Italy.

So, obviously if you commit a crime in Italy that is really strongly connected with a Russian person that is located in Italy but he resides in and his residency is in Russia you could have at the same point the jurisdiction. But the nationality principle differently from the territorial principle it could create a lot of mess. So, the general idea is to use the territorial principle. 

Then there is this strange principle that we have to consider that is the flag principle. So, when you are in a plane, when you are in a boat the flag of the boat of the plane creates jurisdiction. So, if you are in a plane with a just to let you know in a Canadian air or United Airlines you have to respect the Canadian law or the US law. 

This is a simple one but it's also limited but just to know it's important to know but it's the principle again it's territorial. Now, we have this power of disposal approach. Power of disposal approach it's new way of jurisdiction principle that is created after this mess of the digitalization of the world. 

Because from a practical point of view a regulation based on the power of disposal approach would make it feasible for law enforcement to access a suspect data within the cloud. This makes sense then I will give you other definition of the power of disposal approach. I know that is not a great definition but you have to memorize the word disposal.

So, the idea that if I have the availability the disposal of this kind of device here in Italy I can have access to this device independently of where the data are located. And with this approach with this disposal approach they accept the fact that you can hack a computer or a mobile even if it's the data are not present in your jurisdiction because the device is present in your jurisdiction. But if you understand logically the issue from a technical standpoint is crazy because it's not important the device for the investigation it's important the data that is present on the device. 

So, the data are not located in Italy so I don't have jurisdiction on the data but this is the big issue that make crazy the law enforcement because the law enforcement say no no no it's impossible I see the device I want to have the access to this device. And then they created this power of disposal approach that from a legal standpoint for me this is my opinion please consider only my opinion it is completely crazy approach but from a practical point of view I can understand that they have to justify the fact that they have they start to hack computer that contain data that is not in their jurisdiction. But again all this story is to explain they start to ask to Google and Google say no they start to do to enter in the laptop and there was encryption they start to ask password then they say no at the end they say okay we have to do something what is the solution power of disposal approach and then we go and hack all the computer that we can where we cannot access. 

So, sometimes it happens in the life that you stress some fundamental principle and juridical principle for a matter of fact and this is the life where we are living now and when you stress fundamental principle you start to risk to have a situation that start from democracy and leave you to dictatorship. That is not I don't want to be catastrophic we live in a democracy place I'm not worried about what is the power of disposal approach but we have also to consider this point every single day because in a minute you can go and lose other principle when you start to accept this because from a practical point of view we need to solve the issue. Sometimes you have also to accept if you want to respect democracy that is not possible to have this kind of information and you have to find other solution to solve the criminal case. 

When you say no we have to stress the law when we have to make some things that is not logical from the fundamental rights you can make this kind of risk. So, this was the last slide I will keep obviously the information regarding the presentation of the evidence but don't worry because the presentation of the evidence will be the main part of the laboratory. So, these two slides are really important we will also discuss about it the next Friday but are not important for the reason for the matter of jurisdiction that's why I avoided because it's not related to the discussion. 

Have a good weekend.

