Okay, welcome. Welcome in this course, Computer Forensics and Cybercrime Analysis that is a pretty huge course, eight credits, but it's split into coordinated but separate parts. One from computer science perspective and one from law perspective.

And well, my opinion, this is a nice opportunity to join two cooperating but different fields that are legal and computer science and that reflects the nowaday reality in general, in cyber security, there is a huge entanglement of norms, technical knowledge, compliance perspective, legal problems that cyber security experts need to address from different angles. So this is a nice option, this course, to join the two staffs and see technical aspects mostly from my point of view, technical aspects, also considering the impact in legal field. We, the two professors are myself, Andrea Zeni, I see that many of you already, I already met you in different course and the other one is Giuseppe Baciago that probably also you met for different course.

So you should know what to expect from us. Well, about the scheduling, of course you can see on the portal, but I had some details. On Friday, you will have usually the Professor Baciago part, okay? While on Tuesday and Wednesday, we will have our more computer science perspective and sometimes, I would say, more or less four times on Wednesday, we will have a lab on computer forensic stuff.

And this will be a more practical approach that we will try, in which we will try to explore more, well, use cases from a technical perspective. What I would ask, what I will ask you for the lab is that is to join groups, five, six, from four to six people and to accomplish some, not too extensive or too hard task that I will ask you to send me in order to evaluate it. And this will give you also some fraction, it is optional, but for who will do that, this can allow you to gain, if properly executed, some fraction of points as around two, three decimals of points for each lab accomplished in order to reach one point or something more than one point for who performed all the lab.

About the content, well, before that, I also, since we are in the discourse of points, I will also give you some details on the exam. The exam, which is, can be evaluated up to 30 points by itself, will be composed of 10, 12 questions, many in the form of closed question with many possible options that you just should mark as correct or not. And basically, one or two, probably one open question in which is asked more, well, one open question for each professor.

So one for myself and one from Basiago. In order to detail a specific case and develop your, and demonstrate your knowledge in very details, usually I expect an extensive answer that details many different aspects from knowledge of tools, of theory, on how you can apply that in specific cases. And so most of the exam is, of the 90 minutes of the exam is due to answer this open question.

Why? Because once should take just a few minutes as a whole. And this can allow you 30 points. But if you want to sum some points, as I said, you can perform the optional labs and also perform some homework, at most one for any of you, in which you can choose an argument related to the curse and then provide some in-depth investigation that at the moment, I do not have a list of possible topic, but the topic should be agreed by among us.

I mean, if some typical cases that someone said, oh, well, this topic is very interesting. I would like to explore more. And then we can shape a specific point that can be explored, investigated.

And the outcome for that is a kind of report of, well, does not matter very much the amount of pages, but range from 10 to 20 pages, more or less. And a presentation during the curse that can take 10 to 15 minutes, more or less. Again, for the homeworks, I can assign from zero to two points that will be added to the result of the written exam.

The homework must be performed by just one person each. And since there is the need to present it during the curse, I would accept more or less 10 students to do that because, well, otherwise it will take too much time for the presentation during the curse. And, well, we can discuss even next week on possible homework that can be assigned.

So it can be scheduled even now, more or less, and available during the curse. The presentation of the homework should be done after we address the main topic that refers to. So, for example, if you approach something related to file system forensics, to present it, you should wait that we presented during the lecture in class, the file system forensics topic, okay? Just that.

But apart that, the presentations can be done even well in advance in respect to the end of the curse. Last year, some presentations started after one month from the beginning of the curse, okay? About the oral test, this is very, very optional. Well, we did that just two times last year.

And this is just in case we are in doubt about the evaluation, about the real understanding of the students. So it is a very special case. Most of the time, you will have the written exam and the optional homeworks and labs, possibly.

And that will be everything for this exam. About the, well, any question about that? So far, of course, you can ask even after, okay? Well, about the content of the curse, we will have a kind of understanding of the essential, the phases, the procedures, the implication, of digital forensics and basic, and some basics, some essentials about cybercrime organization. We will have some case studies, some specific exponents of cybercrime in order to study typical behavior and typical characteristics.

And we will have a kind of, overview of best practices in digital forensics. In digital forensics, there are lots of standards developed in different countries, in different epochs. And, but they are still used nowadays because it retains some degree of usefulness.

And so it's good to understand the overall, the kind of distillation of the overall principles that are common to the different standards. And also some specific points of some specific standard that can be applied in some reality pretty close to us. And this will be subject of the curse.

Most of the curse will be on technical aspects. Can you still hear me even without microphone? Let me see if I can, if, okay, perfect. There is, oh, well, exhausting battery because it was not recharged in the previous lesson, but I try to speak louder.

If you can still hear me also, okay, perfect. And the most part I was saying of the curse will be related to the technical, from my perspective, about the technical aspects. What are the days of file systems? What are the days of memory? What are the days of email? In order to understand how to approach a forensic process.

And in order to approach that, we need to understand the days. For example, for a file system, we need to understand how the bytes are bits are stored in a physical storage. And what is the role, for example, of the file system infrastructure, which is a kind of mediator of bigger well from the forensic perspective between the bits and what a user can see and also a forensics expert can see.

So we need to understand all those details and to experiment with that. And finally, some brief discussion of what can change the computer forensic field in the next few months or years at the end of the curse. Where the most important topic will be, as you can imagine, related to the generative artificial intelligence that is affecting a lot computer forensics as well as any other topic in computer science and in almost any field nowadays.

What I expect from you is that you have a pretty good understanding of cyber security basics like network security protocols, like well-adopted widespread cyber security countermeasures and building blocks like firewall, digital certificates, virtual private networks, as well as encryption and digest. Digesting algorithms are very widespread, but not very complex. So basically you need to understand what is an hash, what is a digital signature and what are the problems of that.

As well as an understanding of attacks because most of the time the digital forensics expert need to understand what's going on on a specific system and understanding what an attack can achieve, what is the shape of an attack is really, really helpful in order to understand how to approach the analysis. And also some pretty good understanding of computer science is required as well, like systems, operating system internals, computer networks, architectures. This is most of the time assumed in order to understand the concepts.

And unless I do not understand that there is a common missing point, in the case I can try to introduce and give you the essential during the lesson, I will take it as granted and just mention, not explain it. And well, also what I be very glad to see from you is also a kind of inclination, a kind of curiosity in order to approach our problems, our topics, an inclination that allow you to interpret, make in your mind a kind of critical understanding of what we are doing, interpret it maybe in an original, in a different way and connect different concepts in order to reach this kind of novel conclusions. This will feed a lot of our discussion also during the class, will be helpful during the exam, but most of all, I think will allow you to get the most from this course, which is, in my opinion, not a set of notions, but the capability to approach and solve problems that are complex in nature.

About the material, basically we will have slides that will be uploaded on the portal and some documents, some reports that can be used to, also provided by your colleagues from previous years or from real cases, for example, for the loud discussion from Professor Masciago that will be useful as a complimentary document for discussion, exercise and thinking. And this will be provided on the portal or also on demand, meaning if some of you is interested in some specific topic that maybe is not very central in this course, can nonetheless ask me for some, well, some indication and I can send some indication, for example, by email during discussion at the end or at the beginning of a lecture. And well, as I said, the mail is the main way to get in contact when you need some clarification or some specific topic or you want to ask me maybe for a thesis, whatever.

It's good to send me an email depending on the period, meaning if I'm pretty much overloaded by other duties, I can take some times to answer, but if I'm not, if I have even a small amount of time even late at night, I try to answer as soon as possible to question in order to continue a kind of live discussion with the student of the course. And of course, well, I'm not encouraging you to ask for silly question or to avoid critical thinking, but if you need something, I appreciate a lot the exchange even by email with students. But this does not mean do not think critically and ask to me as a kind of substitution to your mental capabilities.

This is exactly the opposite that they want to achieve, but instead ask me or send me your remarks on provocative thoughts or something that maybe was not clear during my lecture so I can address it in the next one or something that you disagree for some reason during my lecture. This is if well motivated, of course, something that I always appreciate. Well, I know also in this course, well, I appreciate it in other ones that is useful in order to arrange the topic in my very not easy to manage mailbox.

If you put some letters that allow me to understand immediately that this is a question from computer forensic course, I will appreciate that a lot. And very likely I will answer you sooner, not because I'm going to punish you, but because I can lose your mail in some tense that I receive every day. Okay, this is our nowadays introduction on the course.

Any questions so far, clarification so far? Not yet. Also from home, if you have questions, you can write it on the chat. Sometimes I take a look on that, I can answer as well.

Okay, perfect, thank you. I also appreciate the positive feedback because this allow me to understand that everything is clear. Okay, let's start with today's introduction.

Oh, well, sometimes as a correct credit, I put the note that indicates where I took the image or how I create the image. Nothing particularly to say about that. Okay, our topic, Forensics Analysis.

What is that? Well, pretty simple. The application of scientific knowledge in terms mostly of methodology on legal problems and not only legal problems, but also criminal investigations, but also internal investigation. It is not too strange to apply digital forensics understanding in order, digital forensic knowledge, digital forensic methodology in order to even understand what's wrong on a, well, during the normal behavior of a system, even if no legal or criminal case is involved.

Those technical knowledge can be applied also by a system administrator in order to improve what is the normal functioning of the system. But most of the time, the target are criminal investigation, of course, or at least internal, for example, internal to an organization investigation. After some internal norms, some internal policy has been violated.

And that even if not from the legal perspective, but from the organizational internal perspective, someone need to be punished somehow. And this is forensics analysis as a whole. So a lot larger than just computer forensics, which is our focus.

In computer forensics, we are talking about different phases that allow to gather, examine, and somehow propagate the findings to other entities about what happened to digital evidences. We will see in more details the different phases, but all of them are very, very important. The acquisition, the proper acquisition of a digital artifact in order to avoid some unwanted manipulation, even from the forensics expert.

The proper examination in order to not overlook any details that can be inside the digital evidence. And also the possibility, the possibility to convince, to make clear, to present the result of the whole chain of analysis to different, maybe non-technical entities. Also this aspect, also this last aspect is very important, the presentation phase.

And a very simple, because for example, you might use digital forensics results of investigation in a court during a legal trial. And so you have to convince judges, attorneys, juries that may have from little to no knowledge in computer science. So also you need to understand what are, in a different field, the key aspects that need to be understood in order to propagate the convincement of your findings.

Well, forensics has a pretty long history before computer forensics. And you guess here, how old is this science in your opinion? 50 years, 100 years, maybe. And yes, 10 years, even more, more than 10 years.

We are talking about forensics, not digital forensics as I said. And well, it depends what the meaning of my words.





If the meaning is when we can find some indication that's among the finite, use the word forensics investigation, forensic science, or, and this is the meaning of my question, when we can find in history applications of forensic concept. And in the second case, well, we have in documents some notes that are more or less 4,000 years old. Okay, like, for example, the use of fingerprints to identify people, which is very wide used nowadays, was, we have some documents that indicates that this methodology used in Babylon around 4,000 years ago, just for, in order to, to understand, to identify who did something for business perspective, for business purpose, in order to say, a guy buys, well, some apples or some grain, whatever, and need to exchange, and agree to exchange with one house, for example, stuff like that was the first use.

Another, but this is just some chronicle of the epoch, a more structured approach on forensic science is finding the Xi Duanqiu manuscript that literally from China means civilization, basically, meaning the washing away of wrongs in the, in the poetic way of say, from, from that country, that basically was a methodology introduced by, by a physician, in order to understand, to solve, to solve a murder case, in order to discern between people just by, or that just by drawing, or after stragulation, okay, due to the differences in the physiology of, of the corpse. And, well, pretty, pretty fast forward here, we in modern time, in 19th century, we have the first structured application of forensic science, for example, comparing the bullet from different guns, that can allow to understand who is the, the, the, the person that, that fired to kill some, some other, and was the first application of that is in 1835 from Henry Goddard, member of British police force, in order to solve a case also in, in this scenario. And, well, a milestone is in the hand of the 19th century, where Henry Fraud proposed the structural mean of the concept from Babylon, in order to, to store and then easily identify different, different person using the, the fingerprint. 

I, and as well after that, the, the work from Francis Galton, Sir Francis Galton, from, that contributed with the collection of thousands of fingerprint and the structural approach to classify and to describe them with spirals, loops, arches, all the different figures that you can find on your, on your fingerprint. I, what is interesting to, to understand is that the science improve when you classify a methodology, when you structure the data, and when you have a huge amount of data that can be used for comparison. And in fact, from the end of the 19th century, the usage of fingerprint to solve cases has grown more and more, and nowadays is, well, even common and old behaviour.

Along the way of creating a structure, when a science grow in complexity, there is a need of new experts specifically related to that. And so at the, in the first quarter of the 20th century, started to grow, to, to born and then grow crime lab that are bound of experts, legal, technical, also, on field agents that cooperate in order to understand what is the possible consequences of one finding, what are the technical details in order to improve one investigation, what are the, the implication on the real life in the streets of some new methodology. For example, how I can approach a crime scene. 

For example, I should, after the evolution of fingerprinting methodology to identify, I should not touch with my raw hand things on a crime scene, while before was not very important, this aspect. Any of these, any new technical improvements has consequences on the, on the praxis, on the normal on field behaviour. And, well, about identification, also, we have what, what, what alone improvements in, in the, in a, in a science way to enrich the possibility to apply and the degree of correct identification. 

Well, fingerprints are a very good, a very good way to identify people, but are not unique. Okay. And we have false, and as consequence, we might have false positive, false negatives.

And, yeah, also is, can be affected by injuries, by any kind of part on the fingers, et cetera. So has some problems. And these allow, open the way to search for more precise identification means. 

Along this history, for example, there is the development of DNA profiling instead, which is much more unique, which is unique for any, any person, mostly unique for any person. And this nowadays can, is a good substitution of, for identification. For example, on a crime scene, I can find some traces I can, I look for as an investigator for traces of DNA, like some split or some piece of skin, some air, whatever, that inside have DNA traces. 

And this allows to identify very precisely a person, if I have in my database, the DNA of that person. Okay. Otherwise I can't until I have a sample to compare. 

Okay. So this is in order to show you a kind of historical perspective to how the, the stuff evolves in a, in a scenario, in a forensic scenario. And nowadays, what's the, what's the situation? We have labs, we have many times labs, even internal mid to large, inside mid to large organization. 

We have experts in, in the police, we have units devoted to that in police and subunits devoted to specific fields of forensics in, in the, in the police, military, et cetera. Why? Because nowadays the forensic science is very, very specialized in many different fields. And any of them requires a lot of specificity like forensic toxicology. 

And as an overall topic, the integration of artificial intelligence that involves digital forensics, but even different, different topic like forensic toxicology, a lot, for example, in order to, to understand quickly the component of a, of a sample to speed up a lot of the process, even if requires a counter check at the hand, the same in digital forensics. Well, some steps, some milestones also in forensic science. The milestone from many different perspective, also from the digital forensic perspective is the Morris worm, one of the first worm of the computer science history in 1989.

That, well, is a, is a milestone, as I said, from many different perspective and also from the digital forensic perspective, because it was the first time in which digital investigation took a part so big, even because of the topic, very inherent to computer science. That involved the analysis of logs, network activities, as well as email exchange before, before and during the infection of the Morris worm. And from that point, we, we can see a kind of computer forensic science with lots of, of, well, inside from, from that very case.

And during that, those years, there were a kind of growing understanding of the impact of digital, of computer science in the normal life. This is a kind of threshold period before computers were, were, well, just some science fiction tools that 95% of the, of the population never, never had anything to do. After that, computers get, got momentum and became a kind of normal tools that you can find in, in many houses before and in any pockets just 10, 15 years after that year, which is a pretty, a pretty short amount of time in terms of the human history.

And, well, in that period, start to grow some understanding and some association and some bodies in order to collect the best practice in order to evolve the science of interacting with computers, with digital tools in an investigation, even if not related to, to a digital, a digital stuff, because digital world was growing and start to, to comprehend the whole, the, or at least at the time to connect to, to the real world. And so we have here two organizations, two historical organizations in which you can find also today some nice, well, guidelines, not very much from the International Association of Computer Investigative Specialists that was a kind of preliminary association in order to, well, gain visibility, to give visibility to, to the point, but most of the organization on computer evidence that developed the standards and guidelines might be interesting, both from historical perspective and from insights on the very foundational aspect of computer forensics that are still valid. Well, some milestones here.

At the beginning, digital forensics were very, a kind of craftsman work where a very expert need to use and develop own tools, but even own formats and manage carefully the findings in order to not compromise them, even unwillingly. mCASE is a first largely usable tool that allow to, to take a digital evidence, store it in a specific format and perform different kind of analysis with just one tool. So a kind of hub for investigation that, well, was not a free tool, very, very expensive by the way, but a very largely used one. 

And this is still in place if you have, with the newer version, of course, if you have the money to, to buy it. Another milestone is that the beginning of this, of this century, of this millennium, in which digital forensics as a science started to widespread also in courts and legal trials, while this means specific laws, specific norms, not only technical standard, not only informal agreement on best practice, were developed and then become law in many countries that from that point on you need to respect or be sure. And this was, well, during the first decade of, of that, of this century, there were, there was a kind of normal evolution with refinement in technical approach, but not very, very much, very big differences. 

The normal behavior was, okay, I need to perform my digital investigation. I said the, the, the laptop, the desktop, then I get the copy of the storage in a, in a proper way in order to not compromise the content of the storage. Then I perform the analysis, most of the time, a static analysis, and I need to compare the findings from different laptop, from memory, from file system, et cetera, et cetera. 

And this was the normal behavior that changed a lot with the advent of mobile and cloud computing. Mobile, because they have a pretty much different, well, there are two big differences. It is always with you and then can gather a lot more information than just a laptop, for example, can collect information where you, you, well, go to, to shop or to, to school or to, or how much time did you pass in your, in your house? What kind of person, what, what are the people to which you are interacting, to which you interact yesterday or last week, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, lots of, et cetera.

And so a huge amount of information. And from the other, this is a pretty different scenario from the perspective of the data. Some mobile operating system does not allow, even with the willing co-op, unless you have the willing cooperation of the user to get the information stored inside your, inside the mobile. 

And from another perspective, you have a lot of different flavors of mobile, even under the same operating system umbrella, that implies different tools, different configuration, different details about how you acquire the information. So this kind of same closed and pretty fragmented in some case or very close in some other affect a lot the, the interaction with a device in a, in a nutshell is very much harder to get the device. And just because you have the device, the physical device with you is not assured. 

You are not assured to get all the information in which is a pretty different from the laptop of that era. And along this, this way, even, even worse, the cloud, the cloud computing in that case, even more, you cannot access to the data. If you have your data on the cloud, your data are no longer on your laptop. 

So even if you're able to go very deep into your device, simply the data are not there. So you can not extract them. And you of course cannot see the, I don't know, a data center, unless in very, very, very specific case, in order to get the information on your cloud instance, on the instance stored, run on your, on your cloud. 

And this is again, a very different approach in which you need to cooperate with the cloud provider in order to acquire information from a specific user or the cooperation of the user. But this might be the user by not be trusted and so can manipulate the information, a complex scenario. And well, finally, nowadays we have some new technologies that make the things even more complex, like blockchain, like large language models, like quantum cryptography that, for example, might broke the blockchain in the next 10 years, maybe, who knows? This is something that someone fears. 

And the evolution of the cybercrime that nowadays is a very structured enemy that we have to face too, with billions of income in the dark part of the computer science, of the internet. We have units that work for states, we have terroristic organization, we have structured cybercrime gang that involves tens or hundreds of acres inside, and that sell malware for hundreds of thousands of dollars or euros. And that has control on botnets of millions of compromised devices. 

Questions? The good news is that we are here exactly for that. Well, for the last minutes of today, I'd like to have a small detour on the Morris worm since its nature of milestone in many different aspects. And also because it is a nice story to tell. 

It is, well, also not only the first computer forensic case, technically speaking, but also was, as we know, the first major cyber attack. And, well, another interesting part of the story is that Morris, the author of the worm, was not willing to attack internet, was just a kind of graduate student of a prestigious university in the United States that want to test the possibility to develop a worm, basically. The story is on Robert Tappan Morris, the son of Robert Morris, a cryptographer in the National Security Agency in the United States. 

So very likely, the inclination of Robert Tappan was from the family that was very inclined in cyber security, both for the knowledge and for the place of work of the father. So in November, inside the mid-network, which were connected to the ARPANET, the ancestor of internet, that at the time was the network infrastructure connecting the mostly university states, the United States University, and also some foreign universities, launched this worm in the evening of





the day. Well, what was the technical specification of that? It was a Unix system, in particular Unix DSD4, and that was written in C language, so particularly simple, basically composed by a C program that downloaded the main body into the machine. So the first content, the grappling hook, was just a kind of downloader for the main program, but the main program was not very much of sophistication. 

It was a program of a few kilobytes. In the computer history museum, you can find on an old floppy disk the original version, the original source code of Morse, and in one of these disks, you can store just a few hundreds of kilobytes in there. Interesting, it exploited some vulnerabilities. 

So, as anyway, the shape of a malware. First of all, a bug, a wrong configuration somehow in the send mail mail daemon. That hello at the time was configured to allow a debug mode also from remote and be then instructed and manipulated from remote in order to circumvent the the security constraints. 

Also, this worm exploited a buffer overflow in the finger daemon, which is a daemon that allowed to get some new information about who logged on a system, who used a system, stuff like that, that nowadays is mostly not used because we are in a much more risky context than that time and providing this kind of information at the time was a good information in order to coordinate between trusted peers nowadays allow hundreds thousands of attacker to acquire information on a system and exploit then some behavioral or technical vulnerability. At the time was installed on mostly any unique system and so can be largely exploited in order to propagate the worm. Another weak point of the epoch was the reliance on R, exec and R shell that are the remote version of exec and shell command in order to run a shell on a remote computer or execute commands on a remote computer where the authentication is based only on the IP address of the machine.

Again, at the time, this was enough. Nowadays, of course, is no longer. Nowadays, they still exist. 

They can be used, but of course, from a security perspective, are suicidal. For example, you can substitute the remote shell with a secure shell that perform the same behavior with way stronger authentication. And when authentication to connect to a remote shell were in place in terms of username and password, also you can experience a nice amount of weak passwords because the security cyber security awareness among the different university guys was pretty much pretty much close to zero. 

So real username of the epoch are username, username, username, and also a nice piece of creativity. You can read it from right to left in order to understand to what extent. Well, of course, this kind of Morris worm involved a lot of investigation.

There are also book chapters on that. And at the end, the reside for the catastrophe that basically in the next slide, we will see what is the amount of damage that this nice student experiment caused was the fact that, well, Morris put in there a self-limiting mechanism. Basically, if you, if the worm understand that already infected the machine, the device, then do not propagate again in that device. 

This was the original behavior, but Morris thought that some network, some system administrators might have fooled this system responding to the worm. Yeah, I'm already infected. And so stop the propagation of the so added the relatively small chance of COVID itself, even if the, the warmer got the answer that the system is already infected in 14% of the times. 

Then this result, of course, in machines infected multiple times. And that was the damage, the real damage of the system, because the worm by itself does nothing bad apart the consumption of resources. But given the fact that started to propagate and cope itself exponentially, even this small part, this small probability of replication created in, in very few time, a kind of fork bomb, which is the, the, the destruction, the exhaustion of the resources due to the, this, the, just the copy of the worm that started to increase the copy exponentially because it started to propagate at well at the beginning to non-infected the system.

But after a few times of devices were infected, even that small probability started to increase dramatically the propagation of that on already infected devices, because the same devices in this kind of strictly connected network were contacted by the worm multiple and multiple and multiple times. And on it, on every more or less one on 10 times, a new copy of this was created on the same machine. And this resulted in before tens, then hundreds, then thousands of crash, of machine crash, that for the dimension of the network at the time was a pretty large contamination. 

Here we have, nice from my perspective to quote from Michael Rabin, he should have tried it on a simulator first. I mentioned that because Morris himself, Rabin is a mathematician, an Israeli mathematician that worked on randomization inside computers, inside digital application, let's say, from among the others. And this inspired the head of this 14% of possibility to replicate regardless of the context from Morris.

And this was the amount of final damage with 6,000 of infected devices, 2,000 in 15 hours, and a total estimate cost of 10 millions of dollars. Nice result for, well, a huge amount for a simple student experiment. And well, yeah, about these, the infected machine, after a few infection, they get completely unusable. 

As Clifford Stoll, another kind of computer science engineer that wrote many books on attacks and management of attacks, this machine were like just dead in the water, completely useless until disinfected. Well, what was the final doom of Morris, convicted, sentenced to three years probation and 100 hours of community service and $10,000 fine. Another milestone here is, as far as I know, the first, or one of the first application of federal law in the United States, the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act was specifically developed for digital scenario, for the growing digital scenario. 

Another important impact was that the first CERT was created by the federal DARPA in United States, the first at Kennedy Mellon University, and from that many, many other start. And well, another impact, relevant impact is that the internet of that time, the backbone of that was disconnected for days. Imagine such a big effect to prevent recontamination, like if we experience internet switched off for days at present time. 

Also, this affected the popular culture, just for your knowledge, some books, and many others exist on that. And some, I would like to conclude with some takeaways. Security matters, we know that since we are here, but might matter even more, and even for common people than we might understand. 

A coordinated response is relevant if, from the beginning of the infection, there will be a possible body can have answer to that, the infection would have spread a lot less than how much did at the time. And finally, something that I think very, very true, even outside computer science, the monocultural risk. When many systems, when you have a huge degree of specialization, in this case, when many systems share the same architecture, just a single weakness for that culture can affect the whole world, can destroy potentially the whole world.

And this is a remark, a very important remark in computer science, biology, culture, whatever, in order to avoid a dramatic end of the context in which we are talking about. And, well, along this line, if all the systems on the internet run that vulnerable system, then the virus would have disabled the totality of them, very likely, almost the whole network. Questions? I think that with the Morris nostalgic case, we can conclude for today and see you tomorrow. 

Thank you. Yes, just I stopped down.

