
Okay, we can start again. Question from yesterday, any remarks or, well, consideration that you want to share with the audience here? It would be a pleasure to hear from your side. Okay, so we can continue. 

Ah, well, just a check from remote, from home. Can you hear me? Can you see the slides? Just in order to check that everything is working fine. Perfect, thank you.

Thank you, Chiara. Okay, yesterday we started to introduce our journey inside digital computer forensics, remarking how the desire of understanding from a real and accurate basis what's going on is penetrated to the human nature from ancient times. And even something that is still in a more sophisticated way in use nowadays was used even tens, hundreds or thousands of years ago, like, for example, the digital fingerprint identification mode.

Well, instead, and well, this is something that informs, that enriches our journey inside this science because kind of always with us mode is the curiosity mode in order to try to challenge to understand the details and to view something from different angles will be a constant way of seeing this, the lectures and the interaction that we will have in this course. Inside the field of digital forensics, we touch some important milestones that can be briefly digested like an attempt to make more accurate and more automatic the possibility to check something. They start from the creation of databases of evidences from the creation of tools like in case in this slide and the similar ones that allow to approach a digital forensics analysis in a comprehensive way from categorization, from acquisition of evidences to the storage of them, along with proof of integrity of them. 

And for that specific formats for storing files are useful. As the possibility as well as the possibility to to use machine learning and automatic comparison in general between different sources in order to understand if something is wrong or not. For example, inside the digital forensic field, we have a nice initiative from the United States that has a kind of fingerprint, an hash, a forensically sound hash of good programs, widespread application, widespread operating system that allow me to understand if a specific application on a digital evidence like an hard drive has been manipulated or is the same of the originally developed from the original manufacturer. 

So this allows me to quickly understand if a piece of software, if an application is something that during a forensic analysis I need to focus on or not. If the hash said to me this is exactly the same bit by bit of the original one, I do not need to find out trace of manipulation because I know there are not. And this is an example of something that is useful from the perspective of automatic comparison between good and bad samples that helps a lot the investigation, the work of a forensic analyst, as well as nowadays we might witness a huge influence of large language models in general, artificial intelligence tools that can compare, put together and find out differences of structured pieces of information and provide a usually well-organized outcome that of course we need to check but that can provide a huge speed up of the typical work which is compare huge amount of bytes, terabytes in normal investigation in a very quick way. 

So a very big speed up and auto automation of the process and well those are the main ways. Automation, increasing in automation, increasing in accuracy, increasing in the availability of data that can be useful to be applied in a specific forensics analysis. About what is related to computer forensics, we have, we might consider many possible definitions that nowadays can result in the very wide concept that computer forensics is something that is involved basically in 95-98% of the investigation from the acquisition of proof or advices of indication of bad or good behavior to the capability to combine correctly and to preserve the evidence developed during an investigation since nowadays at some point an evidence has something to do with a digital incarnation because I need to store a report, even a report that is not related to something which is inherently digital but the report become an evidence that need to be preserved until the conclusion of the investigation and of the trial. 

So basically is always involved and basically relates to to the capability to identify, gather, acquire, examine and finally provide the relevant stuff, the relevant evidence literally that can that allow to reach a conclusion in an investigation. Key points here are the fact that the capability to each of these phases can be prone to possible errors and an error, misbehavior, something not properly managed is something that can compromise all the whole training, the final conclusion, even one single error can be changed and put under a not allowable from a legal point of view light and so each phase need to follow carefully, craft the procedure and about that we have procedures in computer forensics developed by many bodies, we will address them, we will address the main phases soon, today or more likely next week, that try to wrap up the important points during an investigation and then we will try to experiment it in a laboratory. So key points are carefully and compliant procedure, another key point is the possibility to redo the examination, redo the procedure at any time and obtain the same result, that's why we need a carefully documented procedure and also we need the usage of trusted tools that can be used by other people, other parties and produce the same result, for example, if I examine a file and find out a secret inside a partially deleted part of the storage, then anyone should redo this kind of examination and re-get the same secret, okay, so this implies that the original piece of information, the original storage, for example, should not be altered in any way, I need to do a copy of them and work on the copy of them, of that and the process of manipulating the copies should be done adopting sound, trusted tools, like for example, if I'm talking about making a copy of a storage tools of the family of DD, terminal, a command line tool that allow bit by bit copy, the exit copy, not mediated by the file system that then change a lot of stuff in terms of metadata and also is, since error can potentially be introduced in a procedure, also who did what should be mentioned, because alteration might be by mistake or can be with alteration, okay, at any time the procedure of a forensic investigation should be clear, sound and repeatable, okay, let's try to be more detailed on the purposes, well, okay, since we are in a computer forensic course and sometimes I challenge your capacity of identifying details, do you think that this image has been created by artificial intelligence? Why? Good, exactly, it's pretty strange for a real case try to digit on the back of a computer, it's not very effective, which is nice, nice, something that artificial intelligence can perform meaningless result from a semantical point of view, even if graphically speaking is pretty nice, also I'm not sure if the poor lady has one foot or two, one leg or two, I'm not fully sure, which is another interesting stuff, but this may be just a perspective problem, okay, well, just to keep attention to details, well, the purposes, from my perspective, this is, we in this course, we have basically two big perspectives, the legal one and the computer science one, let me say the champion from the technical side, I'm more interested in technical details, so my main goal is try to, as a forensic expert, is try to understand, to answer to a set of questions that allow me to explain it alone, to know what happened, who was involved, meaning by who, people, yes, but even automatic agent, even programs, even malware might be the main actor of damage, of something bad, when, well, this is strictly related to the level of satisfaction that I can reach in doing an investigation, when something happened, because in order to, well, final result should be a clear understanding of what happened, and in order to have a clear picture of what happened, I should also have the tense, the clear indication of the time of each action, we have here the concept of timeline, which is a central concept in digital forensics, in forensics in general, I would say, which is the possibility to have times, the as much exact as possible time in which something happened, in which something took place, so, for example, we can correlate the fact that if someone take a key yesterday, today can open the door, while if the opposite, in the perspective of time, this is not sound, if I'm hypothesizing that someone get into a room and the key, he, she took the key the day after, this is something that is not sound from an explanation, this is a very simple example, but all this is basically what is, what happens, what we need to understand in terms of tens, hundreds, thousands of different artifacts, and in terms of the relationship between them, we need to understand them when anything happened, in order to have a sound explanation of a course of action, then, well, where, of course, again, in normal terms, where is physical, in traditional forensics, is physically related, in which room, which place, house, office, in the streets, etc., etc., inside the forensics, we need to understand in terms of digital places, that may mean computer, laptop, mobile, tablet, networks, IoT device, and this might have remnants in a log of computer, in the network exchanges, even in indirect details, like the usage of a battery, as well as the amount of allocated memory, sometimes we can deduct something even from this kind of indirect details, and this is really influenced on where, and, of course, on our understanding of the where, of the place, we need to understand, for example, details of file system, in order to understand that a deleted file might still have a piece of information in the file system, if we just have the normal user metaphor, in which, okay, I deleted the file, the file is no longer there, this is something that can badly influence our investigation, because we do not know where to look, where to look for details, okay, this is related to the where, and at the end, we have the possibility to explain the why, we have all the timeline, the details, the evidences, and finally, we can have our guess, a grounded guess, about who, about the reason why someone did something, even in terms of automatic agents, okay, and, of course, we can go back, trying to find out the original reason of, for example, attack, or of a kind of damage, we have seen the interesting case of Morris, of the Morris worm yesterday, where we can start from the crash of a node on the alphanet, and then go back and find out, maybe, multiple copies of the Morris worm inside the crashing machine, and then find out another node that infected our node, and so, at the first place, we might think, okay, the owner of the node that infected me, maybe has something, maybe hate me, maybe want to damage my node for some reason, and this might be the first guess, but then we can continue to explore and see that also that node has been infected, and go on, go on, until the original node at the Morris University, and find out that the original crash, that maybe happened after tens of hops of the infection, was the original source of the contamination, and we can understand that Morris did that just in order to demonstrate to himself that it was possible to create such kind of worm, okay? And how did an incident occur is something, finally, that gives us the big picture, and also one of the goals of Computer Forensic Science is try to understand the details of the problems that allowed the incident to happen, in order to mitigate that, in order to avoid that the next time, as well as, of course, support the legal trial that can originate from that, and also allow for fast reaction of an infection, okay? From the technical perspective, we had the need of find out the original artifacts, application speaking, who developed the original stuff, who configured the stuff, who ran, and why, willing or not, programs, and what programs, what kind of devices has been infected. 

There are, for example, malware that spread out through printers, that spread out through surveillance, webcam, that spread out through smart washing machine, and, of course, through mobiles, through laptops, etc. When we identify the nodes, we then approach the details, the operating system, the running application, the interaction that had that node with other network nodes, in order to understand what, in terms of network patterns, in terms of network flows, in order to understand, to gain a kind of graph of possible interaction that allow me to reconstruct the originator, like in the case of the Morris, when we have the RPAN graph, and putting the initial infection on each node, the investigator was able to understand the origin of the infection, and this is something that maybe can involve nowadays hundreds of thousands of nodes, and then need to be done in a more or less automatic way, but conceptually is the same, also today. And, of course, the identification of the damage, deleted files, most of the time, deleted pieces of information, deleted or no longer accessible pieces of information, deleted, okay, but most of the time is not the worst-case scenario.

If a piece of information has been encrypted and the key is no longer available, this is conceptually the same of having it erased in a forensically sound way, meaning no longer retrievable, okay? So, the damage is something that we can start from in order to reconstruct our flow of bad action during our investigation. This is to conclude what I started yesterday. Okay, now, just in order, well, I need to go here. 

I would like to see your knowledge in order to understand if I need to put some more effort, for example, in explaining file systems. So, I prepared or explained some cyber security concepts in order to allow a better understanding of our digital forensics concepts. And so, I tried, let's see, the first time that I tried to create a kind of quiz, model quiz that you should be, should find on the portal. 

Is it something present there? I'm not sure because maybe I need some more configuration. I'll try to do that. Are you, can you see something named like prereq quiz on the portal?




With comments like, just a quick pre-assessment, or not? No? Let me see. Should be open. I modified the sum option.

Now, can you see something? Now, can you see? Still not. Honestly, I don't know exactly because I have a different visualization. I think, well, I don't know.

Can you see on any of them? No, no one. Okay, perfect. You need to be authenticated on the portal.

Of course, something is happening. Okay, exactly. That one.

And you can run it. Can you run it? 20 minutes? Yes, right? Okay, you can access. Okay, perfect.

Okay, well, just run it and answer to the question there. There are easy questions that allow me to understand. Well, try to answer and then we can discuss.

I leave you 15-20 minutes in order to do that. Those are basic questions on many topics inside this course, like cyber security, of course, but also systems, network. Very, very basic just to understand.

Well, to test this system that I can use again in next lesson, if it works like it seems now. And also to understand some details. If, for example, you have in general a basic understanding of file system stuff or not.

So what is the exact path to reach? Because some students are asking me from remote. Okay, it seems that if you don't see the quiz on Moodle, you just have to close the session and re-authenticate and this should be updated. As I said, no evaluation, of course, for this quiz.

You can make all wrong answer and there is no problem from an evaluation perspective. Yes, here. Maybe it was just an error, but it doesn't matter very much.

I just had a quick try, so there can be some errors somewhere. This is just a first try of the tool. Okay, let me see.

This is strange. I'm looking among the listed students and you are inside the list. All of you are correctly listed in the list of students.

Thank you for the note and try to understand if there is something on the options. I'm wondering if it accepts only connection from the internal wireless network. Someone not inside PolitoPromise is capable to run the quiz or no one can access from outside.

Okay, so this is not the problem. Thank you. So, I don't know what is the problem for some of you.

It does not matter that much because it's just a quick test. But in theory, yeah, this should happen for students not correctly inside the course. But both of you are, well, I don't know why.

Oh, well, probably some inconsistencies in the session. Probably there were some, well, first guess cookies of the previous session when I didn't enable the possibility to access from students to this Moodle. And probably was still there somehow in your browser.

This is my first guess. Thank you for the investigation. Okay, let me see if I can access Moodle.

Okay, let's see if we can use this to comment the results. Okay, more or less, we have the results. It does not matter if correct or not.

It's just something that allow the discussion. I'll start again the recording. Okay, no, I didn't stop.

I didn't pause that. Okay, we have a lot of not very relevant recording for this lesson. Well, you can always skip that.

Well, I think some of them are very easy questions, very quick to answer. I expect a profound understanding of the basic of cyber forensics. I think you know what is CAA, where C means confidentiality.

So it's not related to integrity, for example. And yeah, fundamental aspect, but not mandate specific practice. Okay, it's an abstract concept, not by itself related to best practice.

Even if, of course, there are plenty of standards that provide practice. And well, even more about the confidentiality by itself, of course, can be achieved by cryptography is the basic mean to achieve that. Digital certificates are not very required for confidentiality.

Well, about accessible, well, this is something that we can debate. Accessible is something that is somehow ambiguous in nature. So depending on how you interpret accessible, you may say yes, correct or not, they are related to confidentiality.

From a read perspective, it's correct, meaning that confidentiality implies, if achieved, that only authorized parties can read data. But also a modification can be some sort of access. And this is not related to confidentiality.

I can modify something without compromising the confidentiality. If I, for example, blindly modify it or I introduce errors in order to achieve a denial of service. So this may be while it is, of course, not usually implemented, thanks to algorithms like SHA-2 or digest algorithm in general.

Of course, feel free to comment if something is not clear or not. Any comments? No. Perfect.

About cyber security stuff. Well, APT is the acronym of Advanced Persistent Threats. Did you know about that? Okay, this is a concept not very well known.

Those are very famous kind of threats. And I see many know about knowledge of that. Someone knows? Here.

What is? Okay, just a few of you. Okay, okay. We can dedicate some discussion in lesson about during the lessons about that.

That's fine. AdWord is a kind of... Well, and it is correct. It is exactly the acronym of Advanced Persistent Threats that are kind of... Yeah? Okay.

There are kind of attacks that may persist for a long time and that use sophisticated techniques that may comprise the continuous confirmation of many nodes due to what is called lateral movement that owns some nodes, some components inside a system, a network, are infected, can continue to spread the infection from the inside. This is why advanced is part of the acronym. And usually, not always, so also this is somehow ambiguous, but since it's not for evaluation, but for discussion, I can accept that.

It's a kind of malware that usually do not infect the file, but that contain in... That may infect, but it's pretty rare that an AdWord has an active behavior to infect other files. Well, usually, AdWord is something that provides you sometimes some kind of functionality, of useful functionality, but also basically mostly provide advertising in order to sell or inform you of something not very interesting from your perspective. So, it's a kind of spam inside of application.

And then buffer overflow, well, it is something... Do you know buffer overflow? Okay. This is pretty widespread as kind of vulnerability. Not very much.

Some of you know, but not so many. Okay. Okay, we may dedicate also two words on that.

But basically, it's a problem inside an application, a program, that due to non-perfectly constrained instruction allow to trespass the memory, the allocation of memory for some specific data, and overwrite other part of the memory. And this can provoke, due to a properly crafted overwriting of the memory, the execution of unwilling commands. Because basically, I can put some command in the memory overwriting the space for one data, and in that memory, I can put as an attacker instruction that will be executed by the application.

For example, if an application gets some input data, I can put a kind of exec my code inside the input after the limit of the memory buffer devoted to that data in order to provoke the execution for the program that get the input of my malicious code. This is the buffer overflow as a concept. And there are many, many details on that.

But basically, this definition is generic, but correct. Well, x4, this is the first one.




Well, x4 is a very widespread type of file system. Did you hear about that x4 file system type? Not so many. Yes, some of you, but I can see four or five.

Well, this is a modern kind of file system that allow the manipulation of huge files, even of a single file of many terabytes, which is a huge amount and volume even of one exabyte, which is a huge amount even for today's needs. And well, and there's some advanced functionality like the journaling, meaning that on the file system, I do not use the whole storage space, the physical storage space to put in data useful for application, my data, my documents, my spreadsheet, my mail, whatever. But also information that allow me to understand if the file system, the operation of the file system, are run in a correct way.

For example, I can identify that some metadata about the allocation of the different nodes of a file are in a bad shape after a crash, thanks to the journaling, which is something that maintains a status of my storage in order to understand quickly after something, after a crash, for example, where the problems happened. And then you can more efficiently correct those issues when you start again your node. And well, Xt4 support that both from the metadata perspective, metadata files, metadata like when I accessed last time, when I created a file, when I modified a file, and so on, and both from the file perspective.

You can configure that if you want when you create your Xt4 file. And well, I see that this is not very well known, as I expected. And so we will dedicate some discussion also on file system aspects.

OK, the functionality of a journal and file system. Well, I expect that you do not know very well, since you do not know Xt4, which is an exemplary case of study for the file system, right? The fact that a file system journal allows for faster recovery for limited, if you want, consistency check, allow for data integrity. But well, interestingly, what do you think about this answer? A journal and file system allow a longer life for a solid state drive.

This can be debatable, I think. Do you have any, someone want to answer, pick out an hypothesis? Well, in my opinion, no, because the journal and file system continuously keep track of the operation on the storage. So create many more accesses than basic, a simple, let's say, file system like FAT32, that has just simple structures and basically store files and not much more than that.

Because solid state drives are affected and deteriorate pretty relatively quickly and quicker than the magnetic drive. Then this increment in the interaction shortens the life of the drive, in this case. And this is especially true if nothing bad usually happens, in which I have a lot of information that are useful to increment, to speed up the interaction with my storage, but do not diminish, do not reduce the number of operations.

And then the life of the storage of the drive gets shorter. OK. While if you are in a system with frequent crashes or frequent errors, then the usage of a journal and file system may reduce the operation to recovery from errors.

And then maybe in that case, in that special case, we should study about that. But maybe something that makes the life of the drive longer. OK.

Well, any other opinion on that? OK. Well, KIT Digest, I expect you know very well that RSA not involved requires cryptographic hash function like typically nowadays SHA family ones do not require a public key, asymmetric cryptography. If you want the asymmetric version, very broadly speaking, is the digital signature, OK? I think pretty clear.

Well, network technology, a set of sparse question. Well, bandwidth consumption, typical goal of a denial of service, I would say yes. Not the only one, but is a pretty typical target mean to achieve a denial of service among many others, of course.

Switches and routers, do you think are synonyms? No, of course. They are two different stack protocol level, and they have very different functionalities. One at the local area between maybe local area networks, and the other one, the router, among the wider network with different algorithms and different complexities.

Is this clear, right, for everyone? OK. And well, what is the problem here? Well, the sample student that I took put a wrong answer here about TCP. What is the problem here? Why is wrong with this? Real time is for sure not something that TCP is used for.

It's devastating for real time interaction because we have an enormous overhead for the establishment, for the drop down of the connection, for the retransmission of packet that is completely useless in a real time interaction. Because I get maybe a piece of speech three seconds after the speech has been done, so I'm already in the next world. So getting back a phoneme from a previous world is useless, for example, from a previous picture.

So the mechanism inside TCP for real time interaction are very devastating from a performance point of view. So this is not a case. While it's true that it's a connection-oriented protocol effective in many different applications, but not real time.

Well, at the end of the table, I think everyone knows that it's a wired medium. TCP, OK, this is a detail. And it's true that it can provide one to many DNS IP addresses.

If you have many local DNS servers in your local area in Turkey, you may have many of them. And well, nice to know, if you want, it is true that HTTP version, so-called version 3, use UDP as transfer protocol, which is very interesting. Use UDP and after UDP, QUIC protocol, which is that provides some functionality of TCP, but in a much more effective and less structured, if you want, way.

So TCP is abandoned by this version of HTTP, which is something that not everyone knows so much, OK? Oh, well, interesting, nice old OpenSSL. Well, don't you think that provokes the execution of a program if used as input, meaning I write it in a command shell? For example, the student does not choose this option, the sample student that I'm using to discuss it. Yes? Maybe.

In here, you have this out of terminal. There's a command, write to the shell, so I can write this command after that command. So I can upload on a different file, ask for the access, and the different file can provide the contents of the file.

OK, yes. That's, well, that's an example of usage of it. And you mean then that the answer is yes here, because in the example that you provided, for example, provoke the execution.

OK, well, oh, well, we have ambiguities in the language, of course, and we can debate on that. But yeah, you can use it to run command in a shell. We can say it in this way.

Well, OK. OK, is it true that microviews the same output of the command, this one, compared with this one? With the difference that, in this case, the output is not saved to another file, but to standard output. This is a small detail on the OpenSSL syntax, I would say.

But I guess that you encountered OpenSSL quite a lot, right? Not very much? Quite. OK, oh, well, quite a lot. Yes, basically, it is the same, just without the out flag.

And then without the out flag, this command sends the output to the standard output, which is the terminal screen, let's say. OK, do you agree with that? What about this one? It allows for decryption of the encrypted file named encryptedang into a plain text named plain.txt. What do you think? It is correct? Is it correct or not? I like this one. I love this one.

Is it correct or not? Well, no guess for that. Even from home, if you want, on the chat, you can write your opinion here. Is it correct or not? No? Yes, please.

It's fine, you can translate it. Ah, well. Well, also practically, I would say.

Yes, exactly. I just used misleading file names, but the operation happened regardless of the file names. Well, this is a kind of, let's say, exactly.

Thank you. Thank you also from the correct answer on the chat. The operation happened regardless of the file name.

And this is a kind of technique used most of the time for attackers in order to fool an analysis. Use strange or misleading names in order to let the analyzer think that the content of something is something different. In this case, I called encrypted.ang a file that is not encrypted or that might be encrypted.

But in any case, with this operation, it is encrypted again into the file plain.txt. That will not be for sure a plain.txt file, but will be something that is encrypted at least one time, maybe more. I don't know what's inside encrypted.ang. OK? So you should pay attention to details in this case. OK? Well, phishing attack, something, again, that I think you know.

Well, do not exploit only technical weakness. Most of the time, different weaknesses, human weaknesses. And, well, it's inside the social engineering attack.

And we have the, yes, please. Yeah, yeah. I think the doctor is correct.

The phishing is not the way in which the file is. OK. Yeah, that's correct.

Well, it is correct that the target, well, yeah, is not accurate, I would say. Yeah, it's more well-phishing. Well, spear phishing, well, why we can consider this correct? Because spear phishing does not imply the size, let's say, of the target.

So I can say spear phishing, that well-phishing is a subset of spear phishing. OK? I fish even a whale with my spear, we can say. But, yeah, it's more accurate whale phishing in this case.

OK? Good. And, yeah, you, nowadays, have a lot of phone calls. I, well, also some of my friends, are correct with this kind of phishing attack through.

And, well, we're very sophisticated nowadays. Because with the advent of larger language models, we can create a very, very, from the audio perspective, completely accurate duplicate of the voice of many others if the attacker has access to one, two minutes of speech. OK, so receiving a call that say, with the correct voice, I am your colleague.

Please send me to this number, which is of my friend here. I'm outside, I'm abroad, whatever. Please send me the credential to access our secret system that I need to quickly access to explain something to a very important person.

This is something that can happen very frequently nowadays with the voice of your colleague. For example, you can take this virtual classroom and you have more than enough of my speech to create a perfect replica of my voice. So any of you can create very easily, even free of charge, a replica of my voice.

And, well, use this voice to say anything you want. So phone calls are getting very, very, very frequent. Well, anti-spam filters do not completely avoid.

While multi-factor authentication, I would say, yes, can mitigate the fact because it requires another layer, at least of thinking, or barrier before being trespassed. OK, question? If not, we can have 10, 12 minutes break. OK? Yes? Well, which one? A specific kind of engineer can be significantly, ah, no.

It is correct. Maybe, since I put quickly the evaluation, maybe is the evaluation not correct. Yes, it is not correct.

OK? Any further remarks or questions on what we did today? In the previous section, as usually, if you developed any remarks or note, feel free to share it and to enrich the audience with that. If not, as it happens, as it seems happening pretty often, we can continue with the introduction of some relevant concepts in digital forensics. We do not dig very much into them today.

This is a kind of first introduction to focus on the fact that they are relevant and important and important point. The core concept is digital evidence, which is data stored, transferred, manipulated, managed. Any kind of piece of data manipulated in any way, manipulated in a good or bad manner, so basically everything digital that can be used.

The point is, if can be used in a court, in a trial, in order to reach some conclusion, right? It is a digital investigation is all about a set of digital evidences and the history of those digital evidences that can be interpreted, can be examined, can be acquired in different way, at different level of abstraction that are manipulated with the full awareness of how fragile they are. So this requires manipulation from the forensics investigator from who acquire from the first time until the last one that move it physically or logically to use only means that do not alter the inherent content of the digital evidence, both from the physical perspective. For example, if I have, I don't know, a driver, an hard drive of the old magnetic type, I should shield this hard drive from magnetic fields in order to avoid a physical damage, a physical alteration of the magnetic fields inside the hard drive that are used to store bits.

And from the logical perspective, if, for example, I am doing a copy and I want to work on the copy again of a piece of information stored on an hard drive, I must use tools that get any bit from the storage and do not interpret them and do not rely on abstraction on layers that may improve the access, but that imply modification, a different view on the storage. For example, the file system is a very typical case to consider in which the storage, the very bytes stored in a hard drive are mediated by the file system that present them in a bunch of files that create metadata, like when I access and modify metadata on files, like when I access a file. That is something that is modified behind the scene any time I access some pieces of information.

So if I want a forensical sound piece of information, I cannot rely on this kind of abstraction. I need to interact directly with the storage itself and with proper tools that allow me to interact with this storage. This kind of awareness is fundamental in order to perform a sound forensic analysis.

And I say it's about the history. What I mean, I mean the relationship that comes from how this digital evidence has been used by the attacker, by the insider, by the employee that performed, that made some errors maybe. I need to understand the relationship among them and store those relationships as well in something that becomes another digital evidence, a record with conclusion, with logical relationship between the other digital evidences.

And as I said, for any type of digital evidence, this requires domain competence. For file system, I need to understand the modification that are implied by using a file system. For emails, I need to understand what's inside either of a typical email protocol.

What is an S-man format, for example, in order to understand what I can access in a secure email. I need to know how the path of an email is stored in different email servers and in the final email client. What kind of field can be modified hop by hop? Which one?




From the start to the beginning, in order to understand what kind of information I can distill from the analysis of an email, I need to understand what are the implications of interacting with cloud storage, with cloud-based tools, with cloud providers, so I cannot adopt the good old forensic procedure if I want to get information of a cloud-based misbehavior, because most of the data probably will be in the cloud, not in the physical device that I can see. With a cloud-based crime, then very likely I need to know details of network protocols in order to understand what kind of exchange has been performed, when I can access something or when I cannot, maybe, and which part I can access. If, for example, a protocol like TLS is used because, for example, I can access the IP either part, but I cannot access, for example, the details of the HTTP interaction if I can just access a set of network flows that use the TLS, unless I can recover the session key and then I can decrypt the interaction. 

So, for example, if I'm aware of these details of the network exchange, I can try to recover the session key if possible. For example, maybe you know that if I run, well, of course, you can imagine that a TLS terminator, a node that terminates a TLS connection, needs to have the session keys. This is obvious, but maybe you don't know that, for example, if I run a browser like Chrome, in many browsers it's possible to run it asking to store the session keys on a file in order to, well, examine more details of the TLS traffic. 

For example, I can import in Wireshark those session keys and then I can look into the details of a TLS connection. Wireshark allows this kind of behavior that, in theory, is clearly possible. If I know this stuff, I can, for example, try during an investigation to run, not being noticed, the browser of the suspect in this mode in order to get the session key and then, at the same time, store the network traffic and, after that, access and look into the HTTP connection, for example. 

But this can happen only if I know the details of TLS, how it works, the fact that I need for each session different session keys, that I know that tools like Wireshark allow to import the session key and, otherwise, I should develop my specific tool that is feasible but more time-consuming. I know that browsers like Chrome allow for this mode of browsing. All those information, knowledge, allow me to successfully conduct a digital forensic investigation. 

That's why, basically, for any family of digital evidence, I need an expert of that specific domain. We will touch the surface of different domains in this course, even at some interesting technical details. But, for each of them, there are so many possible differences and so many options available that, even for any of them, file system forensics, network forensics, etc., a full course can be devoted in order to be a deep expert on that. 

What happens, in practice, is that, on your work, you increase your experience and your knowledge during on-field work, detailing, examining, confronting yourself with your more expert colleagues, and so on. But, in this course, we will try to have a view of the principal fields. Another important concept, a very pervasive one, is the chain of custody. 

As I said, it is very important to be able to rerun and to reconstruct any step of a digital investigation in order to defend the final finding, to defend the final thesis at the end of a digital investigation. The chain of custody, which is the documentation of the process of handling evidence from the very first time which this evidence appeared in the digital investigation until the final verdict of the jury, of the judge, is what is named chain of custody and must be documented in details, allowing to identify, at any step, what happened by and who performed the action, meaning, well, maybe the suspect, but also the investigator that did something during the manipulation, the management, the examination of a digital evidence. And this is to avoid that the counterpart might say, no, this step is not documented, so someone may have altered this evidence at this step, because from the place A in which the evidence was stored is not to say how it was transferred to place B, maybe another from a police department to another police department, from one building to another building. 

And during that time, maybe someone substituted the evidence, if we do not have exactly the identification of who transferred and at what time from place A to place B. This is exactly, sometimes, that compromise the legal admissibility of a digital evidence. And this is from the physical perspective, but also from the logical perspective. Who mounted a specific file system? How mounted? Maybe wrongly mounted, not in a read-only way, that evidence, and then modified some metadata, some access time of some file, and then you can no longer achieve the evidence that the last one was the suspect.

Okay, so both from a physical and logical perspective. And again, this requires knowledge on formats for storing digital evidences, operations that are performed by your tools, obvious, evident, but also subtle, not immediately visible modification on the context that can be performed by your tools, by using your tools. And of course, in order to be legally admissible, your practice must be compliant with the accepted legal protocol or norms, for example, in case of an internal investigation, in an investigation internal to an organization, in order to be used to achieve the final conclusion.

Not only, it cannot be only technically sound, but also compliant with the accepted standard. And that's why this is an interesting course, an interesting chance to put together legal and technical part. The data acquisition process, I think that is now pretty much clear, that is a central concept in the light of the fact that any step must be documented and the forensic expert must be aware of the changes each action performs on the digital evidence. 

So, the acquisition is a key moment in completely compromising the admissibility of one piece of data, or instead the correct preservation of it. There are, for doing that, there is the need of comprehension of the context. And well, for example, if I'm facing as an investigator the need to get information, if I'm facing a running system or a switched off system, well, my approach can be completely different. 

Why? Because the action of switching off a system provokes an enormous amount of modification on the system in terms of metadata. Open files are closed, the content of the memory is mostly erased, the metadata on many files are changed because, for example, many information needs to be saved before the final switch off. Many file system logs are modified, etc. 

We have hundreds of modifications that can change radically what we can see in the next switch on of the node, of the machine. So, an expert can face the choice, what is the best action that I can do? Switch it off or try to get some information or use maybe the system. And in this case, we have other sources of problem. 

Maybe the system is not trusted, it's compromised, some functionality are modified by the owner. And so I cannot, as a forensics expert, rely on normal tools to get the list of files, to get the list of folders, to have information on the systems. And so, trying to understand what is the best course of action requires a lot of knowledge of the specific context. 

And also, there is the need of useful, specific, important tools in order to access the data. As I already mentioned, the DD command, which is a tool that is very old and powerful, still in use nowadays. Tools that allow for direct access to the device and bit-by-bit copy.

There exist other tools, like Encase by itself, allow this kind of copy. FtkMajor, out of C, also provides access to an underlying tool to duplicate the storage. In any case, I need, but I cannot use a normal, for example, if I want to get information from a suspect storage, I cannot use normal tools that copy files, that make maybe backup, the backup of files, or perform normal functionalities that copy information, because those tools can't be, if not specifically devoted to that, can be a forensically sound copy, because it modifies, essentially, a lot of metadata. 

Moreover, I need to have my version of a forensics expert version of those tools. If I find, well, by absurd hypothesis, if I can find a DD copy on a suspect laptop, I cannot use it, because that very copy can be altered by the owner of the system and work differently. For example, can selectively leave out some pieces of the hard drives. 

Technically speaking, there is no problem in recompiling a version of DD that does not copy, for example, the memory from address, I don't know, 1,000,000 until the address 1,136,000. Maybe because exactly in that set of memory addresses, I put, as a malicious owner, a piece of my secret malware, of my stolen information, I don't know, whatever I do not want the forensics investigator can find out. So, I need the tools in the sense that they are acceptable tools that behave in theory as expected. 

I know that they behave in theory without altering metadata, for example, and I know that in practice are not compromised copies, compromised instances of them. That's why a forensics investigator has always a bag, a suitcase, with some nice tools that allow the copy without modification, without interaction with the operating system of storages. I'm talking about, for example, the so-called write blockers that can be logical or physical tools that impede the possibility to modify the data while copying them. 

Hashing is a concept that we know and is very important and it is one of the principal tools in order to achieve integrity and admissibility of digital evidence. Digital evidence is digital by definition, so it's a set of bits, something that statistically assures me that a digital evidence is not modified, is the hash of that digital evidence. So, basically, during a forensic investigation, many times I need to redo the hash with a sound hashing system of that digital evidence. 

What I mean of a sound with a sound hashing algorithm, for example, nowadays is not a good practice to use MD5, because we all know that, as a problem, a theoretical and then practical problem with the collision is not very large, the size of the digest from MD5. Furthermore, we have the possibility to influence the collision of the hash, so it's not a good algorithm to use. But, of course, we need to know this kind of problem, what kind of algorithm is more suitable in a specific case in order to perform our task, in order to balance the effectiveness and the security requirements. 

And, of course, we need to know what kind of tool performs this kind of operation. Well, we have command line tools like SHA-256, like HashDip for doing hash of many files in a step. We have integrated the possibility to perform hash inside fully fledged tools like OutofC or FTKMajor. 

We have the evolution, let me say, of basic tools like DD that, before doing and just after a copy, perform the digest, the hash of the copy. Just because many times I exactly need that, I need to compare what was the shape, the exact composition of the digital evidence before a copy and after a copy. So, I need to evaluate two hashes and compare them in order to be sure no modification happened, even by chance. 

Well, I already mentioned RedBlocker. We have a physical one here when two hard drives are under copy and this is assured from a physical perspective that no one can interfere during the copy because the copy by itself is something that can be influenced by an attack. So, it is a sensitive moment in which something might get bad. 

For example, well, of course, from the logical perspective, if I'm doing a copy mediated by a network bus, by an Ethernet bus, for example, someone can provoke a collision inserting bits in the network not respecting the CSMA CD protocol, the old protocol to avoid collision and then provoke a wrong data as a result. A private blocking mechanism, a physical RedBlocker impedes this kind of interaction because it dedicates a bus and impedes any interference in that. Well, this is available for real professional and pretty rich, let's say, forensic experts, but otherwise, I can try to achieve in many investigations, many low-profile investigations, a logical RedBlocker.

For example, I can instruct my operating system to impede the writing on a device. We have a logical functionality from the operating system that allows to mount in a read-only way a device that puts the device in a read-only mode and this kind of operation, if the operating system is not compromised by itself, avoids the possibility to manipulate the writings during a copy. Both logical and physical hardware, alcohol and physical tools are namely RedBlocker when they allow for this functionality.

You cannot write on a device usually during a copy. Again, if you do not use a sound procedure that RedBlocks the access to a device during the acquisition of that information, then you may have hard times in defending your digital evidence during the trial or during the challenge with your colleague in an internal organization. Those concepts lead to the forensic image, which is exactly an image obtained following the principle of not manipulation, unauthorized manipulation of the evidence during the copy.

In order to achieve that, you can use the forensic tool that we have seen at the K-Major, out of CDB, in CASE and many others. I mentioned here also the K-Major, but you have plenty of them and plenty of them are accepted in lists often provided inside a compliant document for some specific forensic standard. You have lists of tools that are acceptable in a specific context, according to specific bodies, according to specific country laws, etc. 

The points are always the same. You used some tools, acceptable, admissible tools, used it well in a technically sound way. You used it in a compliant way, respecting the rules inside your country, inside your context, inside your organization, and you documented all the things you did. 

You performed the hashing in any different steps, so you can prove that no errors, neither by bad behavior or by unwanted errors, have been introduced in your copy. Then you continuously have a forensic image of your digital evidence that can be used in the trial, in your investigation, in your final, as an outcome of your investigation, in a final trial and can be even successful. Questions? Well, with Professor Baciago, you will have different use cases from the law perspective. 

Here, I just want to remember that, well, we may apply




It's knowledge in many, many different scenarios. Legal, that's true, but also internal and technical. And we may have plenty of cases in which the forensic knowledge may be useful.

Like, for example, here I just mentioned some possible one, like, well, internal network-based abuse from an employee. So someone that, at some point, as an organization owner, as a system administrator, I can notice that something bad happened inside my network. Maybe some concurrent sites have been accessed or maybe some restricted site have been accessed, et cetera, et cetera, or even more basically, well, someone you accessed a lot, not allowed email address from inside the organization.

Okay? And then you have to find out respecting the privacy rules, what happened and how you can address this point, respecting the rules that protect the normal citizen, okay, and normal employee. So it's a nice balance change between reduce the abuse and respect the rights, okay? Might be pretty complex. Or another scenario is, okay, there is a fraud, how this happened? And this is, for example, very suitable for merchant on internet that want to understand how fraud and then how the market, let's say, is damaged by bad behavior in order to reduce this kind of behavior.

This can be understood comprehending the details of a mechanism when we are facing a fraud. For example, if there is an anomalous behavior for example, a user can have a compromised device and this malware, for example, might try to access and perform banking transaction. If I notice from the traffic, from the type of operation that unusually the user let's call it in that way, is trying to perform many bank transfer of consistent entity in strange period of time, in a strange hour, with a strange frequency, then we can find out, we can conclude that there is something strange, maybe a malicious behavior, maybe an infection of a device.

And then a bank can stop this interaction. This is something that happened most of the time. If even if you try to perform many bank transfer and usually you don't, very likely your bank and a bank technician, a bank clerk from your bank will call you asking, well, there is a strange traffic, a strange course of action.

We've blocked them. Are you involved in that or there is something strange going on? And that's because there have been a study on the mechanism of fraud, on the mechanism of attacks, on the mechanism of compromission that allow to identify the typical behavior apart the typical technical means in which this may happen. So the outcome of a forensics investigation is not only the understanding of the bad of the course of action, but also can be used as prevention for the next course of bad action.

Having given a deep understanding of what can happen. And well, also data unauthorized manipulation, another scenario in which we can access to logs, to host, server, network logs in order to understand how and when data have been moved from one place to another. And as I said, the understanding of the details and a forensics investigation can allow us to understand what is the extent of an infection of a damage, because we can find some signs, some remnants of the action of a malware, even after, for some reason, the malware removed maybe itself from a node, we still, in some cases, find out traces in alteration of the data on a file system, or even in the alteration of the computational resource employed at one specific time that maybe are unusual for the amount of tasks that the node had to do at the time.

We can find remnants, traces of a malware and then find out, reconstruct where that malware spread in the infection. And then what is the extent of the damage that can have been caused by it. And those are just examples.

You will see real or realistic use cases from the legal perspective. And we will dig into more technical details in this technical part of the course. Questions? Well, I think that I gave you even too much excitement on this course.

So for today, we can stop here.

